http://www.int505.org/usa/events/20010610FalmouthREP.htm

Falmouth High Performance Regatta 2001
June 9-10

The First Annual Falmouth High Performance Regatta was held at the Falmouth
Yacht Club in Falmouth, Massachusetts June 9-10. Henry Amthor, Steve Sparkman,
Ali Meller and John Hauser made the journey from Fleets 8 and 19 with Mike
Smith, who came to Falmouth to practice with Henry for the Portugal worlds,
coming all the way from California for some East Coast action.

At Falmouth YC

A rare Northerly kept the twelve 505s and 2 29ers onshore for an extra hour on
Saturday morning while it did battle with the Sou'Westerly seabreeze. The
seabreeze eventually won out and everyone pushed off from the beach for a day
of marginal trapezing conditions. From the first gun it was obvious that two
boats in particular had the speed edge-Neal Fowler and Dave Dyson in the "Bass
Master" and Tim Collins and Bill Smith in "The Pump" swapped firsts and seconds
for the first three races while the rest of us watched.

Race four saw the Northerly try to do battle again with the seabreeze. On the
first leeward leg (we ran sausage-triangle-sausage courses while the 29ers ran
three sausages) the wind shifted 180 degrees, moments before the first boat got
to the leeward mark. The race was abandoned since the RC had no time to alter
the course; and those of us who went left thanked our lucky stars we were
spared the embarrassment.

The sailors were treated to a cash bar with a great view, burgers and dogs on
Saturday night-sponsored by WitchCraft Boats. All those in attendance seemed to
enjoy the atmosphere and the opportunity to watch the Ferrarone bros. head back
out for some practice following the conclusion of day one. Special thanks to
Tim Collins for being the grill master for this event.

Sunday dawned without the Northerly -- which meant more breeze. Tom Hurwitch
had to scramble onto the roof of the yacht club and slide through a window to
get the club open for a bunch of hungry (breakfast was provided both days)
sailors. Four more races were run on Sunday, two triangle-windward-leewards and
two of the Hamlin/Bergstrom proposed worlds courses. Not much changed on Sunday
with Fowler/Dyson having two particularly excellent races performing horizon
jobs on the fleet.



Tom Hurwitch

