1996 Carl Miller Regatta

West River Sailing Club hosted the annual Carl Miller Regatta, October 6-7;
Excellent Race Committee work was provided by the Flying Scot fleet. Thanks!

Fall is a wonderful time to race on the Chesapeake Bay. The heat, humidity and
frequent light air of the summer are gone, and more breeze from weather systems
can be expected. This year's Carl Miller was no exception. The highs were in
the low '60s, and the water was noticeably cooler! The twelve 505s, single
handed fleet (seven International Canoes and four Contenders) and four 470s had
puffy, shifty winds from the North, with a little more strength on Saturday
than on Sunday. It was challenging racing, with shifts, puffs and holes
completely changing the finish order in some races, just feet from the finish
line.

The 505s had several more newcomers with Sterg Papadakis racing his 2nd regatta
in 7199 and Steven Brown - whose very recently acquired boat was not yet ready
so he crewed for Sterg on Saturday - racing his first 505 event. Jack Mandel
crewed for Sterg on Sunday; Jack has been on the fleet 19 contact list for over
two years, and finally got out for a ride!. Chris Ryan chose to attend his
wedding rather than a 505 regatta (Chris, you are supposed to schedule this
sort of thing around 505 regattas!) so newcomer Brian Debrincat was crewing for
Paul Heads. Eric Johnson - almost a veteran with three 505 regattas this summer
- crewed Saturday for Peter Mignerey, while Bill Gross crewed for Bob O'Brien
on Saturday. Paul Cronin returned to the 505 class after being absent for
years; Paul was crewing for John Wyles. By the time Paul left on Sunday, he was
making arrangements to build himself a boat using the Lindsay tooling at Karl's
Boatshop.

505 Mid Atlantics winner Macy Nelson was back though without his winning crew
from the Mid Atlantics, Roger Link, who was sailing International Canoe this
time. Macy sailed with ace crew Tom Russell of New England. Brothers Henry and
Doug Amthor of Hampton, 3rd at the Mid Atlantics struck first, winning the
first race by going left on the second beat, and passing both Alexander
Meller/Allan Johnson and race leaders Nelson/Russell. Meller/Johnson passed
Nelson/Russell on the last beat - with a puff from the left - to take second.
Nelson/Russell were 3rd, and Barney Harris/Jesse Falsone 4th.

Nelson/Russell led the 2nd race, but were passed by the Amthors on the second
reach, when the Amthors gybed twice and sailed high angles keeping their
relative wind forward, while Nelson/Russell sailed low into the leeward mark.
Meller/Johnson passed Nelson/Russell on the next beat, while Amthor's pulled
away. A righty at the bottom of the last beat got Meller/Johnson back into
range of Amthor's, and then when Amthor's chose to position themselves slightly
to the right of Meller/Johnson, with boat teams close to the starboard tack
layline, a slight back allowed Meller/Johnson to squeeze off the Amthors.
Meller/Johson won, Amthors were 2nd, Harris/Falsone 3rd and Nelson/Russell 4th.

In the 3rd race, Amthors led early, but sailed high of the first reach rhumb
line to keep their speed up in the lull, and then gybed early for the mark.
Meller/Johnson were able to sail lower at the bottom of the first reach, and
were inside the Amthor's at the gybe mark. Meller/Johnson opened up a lead, and
were able to protect it up the 2nd beat and down the light air run to the
finish (the last race each day was a Gold Cup rather than an Olympic course),
despite the Amthors getting Meller/Johnson to gybe away from a puff.
Harris/Falsone were 3rd, Zimbabwen John Wyles/Paul Cronin 4th, and
Nelson/Russell 5th.

The fleet sailed in for chicken, ribs and some of Monty Schumpert's EXCELLENT
home brewed beer. On the scoreboard, Meller/Johnson's 2,1,1 gave them a slight
lead over the Amthors' 1,2,2 with Harris/Falsone in 3rd with 4,3,3.

The Amthors were leading Sunday's first race, but smart sailing by
Nelson/Russell pulled them past on the 2nd beat. While Nelson/Russell pulled
away, the fleet bunched up behind, with Papadakis/Mandel, Mignerey/Crane,
Harris/Falsone and Schumpert/Schumpert all in the hunt. A close battle down the
run, and up the next beat ensued. Most of the way up the last beat, and almost
on the port tack layline, Meller/Johnson chose to tack and go further left,
found the Hail Mary puff, and passed five boats to pull into 2nd behind
Nelson/Russell. The Amthors were 3rd. This set up the scene for the final race,
with Amthors needing to win with Meller/Johnson 3rd to tie. If Meller/Johnson
were 4th or worse, the Amthors would win. Any other result gave the event to
Meller/Johnson.

The wind shifted left shortly before the start, creating a jam up at the
favoured pin end, as most teams wanted to go left. Several teams - including
the Amthors - were early and were forced to circle around, gybe, and start on
port ducking some transoms. Nelson/Russell started a little distance away from
the pin end, and were in a commanding position over Meller/Johnson who were
slowed pinching around the melee, with Freedman/Goubalt in clear air on
Nelson/Russell's weather quarter. The Amthors continued out on port after
escaping the starting line. Meller/Johnson needed to go right to cover the
Amthors, but were pinned for some time by Nelson/Russell and Mark
Freedman/Phillipe Goubalt. When Meller/Johnson opened up enough distance below
Nelson/Russell to tack, they very narrowly escaped a slam dunk attempt from the
latter, by footing away. In the meantime, Amthors found the puff they needed on
the right, and came back on a great starboard lift, ahead of Nelson/Russell and
Meller/Johnson. Amthors attempted to shut the door on Meller/Johnson by trying
to get on their air, forcing them to foot down into Nelson/Russell, but were
not successful. These three teams along with Rene de la Rie/A.J. Piccillo all
arrived at the port tack layline, looking for the next lefty puff. Amthors
again tried to force Meller/Johnson down into de la Rie/Piccillo, but were not
able to put a boat in between themselves and Meller/Johnson, who rounded
second. de la Rie/Piccillo were 3rd and Nelson/Russell 4th. The Amthors opened
up on the reaches, but Meller/Johnson were able to open up on the boats astern,
as de la Rie/Piccillo held off Nelson/Russell. With a gold cup course, shifty
puffy conditions and a significant distance between Meller/Johnson and the
boats behind them, the Amthors had little chance to try to push Meller/Johnson
into 3rd or 4th. Amthors won the race, but Meller/Johnson's 2nd gave them the
regatta by a very narrow margin. Nelson/Russell got by de la Rie/Piccillo on
the 2nd beat to finish 3rd in the race. Their 1st and 3rd tied them with
Amthors for the day, and pulled them up into 3rd overall.
