St. Francis 5o5 and I14 Regatta

On June 23, 24 St. Francis Yacht Club hosted the 5o5, I14 regatta. Three races
were sailed on each day by 13 505s from Northern and Southern California.
Saturday started of with 12 knot winds building to 20 knots for the last race.
Bruce Heckman and skipper Jeff Miller jumped to a early lead by winning the
first two races; playing the shifts down wind seemed to be the key to their
success. Their winning streak was thwarted by the team of Mike Martin and
Masters Division World Champion Howard Hamlin, who won the third race in solid
breeze.

Sunday brought stronger but more variable wind for the first race. Sundays
first race was again won by Martin and Hamlin giving both teams two first place
finishes. the wind became quite strong in the second race. Heckman and Miller
rounded the weather mark first with Martin and Hamlin hot in pursuit. By the
jibe mark they were almost overlapped when Martin and Hamlin capsized (the
first time they had ever capsized in a race in 4 years of sailing together.)
Heckman and Miller went on to win the race with Martin and Hamlin in second
only a few boat lengths behind.

By now the wind was blowing over 25 knots. The race committee wisely sent the
inferior classes in while the 5o5s sailed the final race in wind that never
dipped below 30 knots. Martin and Hamlin rounded the weather mark first, again
Heckman and Miller took the lead by smart sailing downwind. they lead until the
next leeward mark when Martin and Hamlin took the lead with a better leeward
mark rounding. this set the stage for a 30 knot tacking dual up the final beat
with Heckman and Miller passing to take the lead right at the finish to win the
regatta with four first and two seconds. Martin and Hamlin were second and Mead
Hopkins and Pat Andreasen were third. Sorry I don't have complete results but
we had to drive 8 hours back to Long Beach before they printed them up. Maybe
someone else has a copy.....


Mike Martin

and these comments from a SF Bay area I14 sailor

" ... the 5o5s had a great city front regatta this weekend with about 12 boats.
I met Ryan Cox and Tyler Moore and saw them out on the water a lot. Jeff Miller
smoked the regatta with 4 1sts and 2 2nds. It was a thing of beauty watching
Miller and Hamlin cross tacks in 28 knots of wind going incredibly fast, with
Miller winning by a boat length or so. Of course the 14s were off the water by
then.

I think Ryan and Tyler were figuring out the new boat and the strong winds,
finishing 7th. Miller was quoted at the rewards ceremony as 'I got my in main
flogging for the season in race 6 today'."

"Although I have no empirical or theoretical data to back this up, I stronly
believe that a planing dinghy or skiff would torch a windsurfer in a 1 mile
purely upwind beat. Watching Howard Hamlin and Jeff Miller 'fly' upwind
yesterday in their 5o5s in about 28 knots of breeze reinforces this belief."


