Pumpkin Patch Regatta
WRSC
October 19-20, 1996

Maybe this yearís event should have been called the "Smashing Pumpkins
and Patch Regatta" after a major cold front came through and provided
puffy and shifty conditions from the west with VELOCITY! We are talking
puffs over thirty and absolute survival conditions. I donít think Iíve
ever seen so many whitecaps on this small section of river.

Ed. For those not familiar with WRSC, the West River is small, shallow,
and much shiftier and puffier than the Bay. It is really a silly place
to sail on a very windy day...

This is typically a laid back regatta, where we get a few boats who want
to do a little more racing before the cold weather comes. Four classes
were schedule to participate: Flying Scots, International Canoes,
International 470s and International 5o5ís. With the weather and wind
conditions looking ominous, it took some courage to even leave the
beach. The 470s were smart and went home. The Canoes were very brave as
four left the beach, but only one made it to the race course. The Scots
were looking pretty good for a while, but then it really started honking
and they sailed in as well. The 5o5ís had no problem and were wishing
for more breeze...NOT! I know this is where I am supposed to lie and say
what great sailors we are and how the boats can handle this sort of
thing, but this was clearly not the case.

Three time North American Champion Macy Nelson remembered that he had
a family to support, so living was a good idea, and sailed in, much to
the chagrin of his rock star crew Nick "Iím getting bigger" Nelson. Nick
- clearly entrenched in the Crewís Union - was heard mumbling "These
skippers are such wimps". Sol Marini stepped into a 5o5 for the first
time and was driving for Allan Johnson. Sol didnít know any better,
Allan was scared and kept remarking so, while Sol was heard mumbling
"These crews are such primadonnas". Sterg Papadakis had driven from New
Jersey and his crew (New Boat Owner) Latane Montague had driven from
Charlottesville, so they were psyched no matter what. Barney Harris and
Jesse Falsone are just nuts, and were blasting around everywhere. Bob
and Betsy OíBrien de-rigged their boat and went home smiling.


Race 1 (and only race on Saturday)

Harris/Falsone won the start with Johnson/Marini close behind.
Papadakis/Montague were off fixing a trapeze wire. Harris/Falsone were
killing Johnson/Marini, but as I mentioned before this was survival
conditions and Harris/Falsone learned the hard way that the first thing
you do when you round the weather mark is blow the vang and pull up the
board. Johnson/Marini smiled broadly as they sailed by the swimmers.
Harris/Falsone did get style points for going for the chute (twice) and
failing twice. This allowed Papadakis/Montague to sail into second
place. Johnson/Marini made their jibe with no chute up but struggled
sailing upwind as they tipped over three times. Fortunately for them, so
did the other boats. Cruising to the downwind finish, Johnson thought it
wise to "chicken jibe" much to the protest of Marini. The tack was
successful, the bearing off was not as the team Death Rolled a la Laser.
They recovered to win the race with Papadakis/Montague close behind.
Harris/Falsone had their mast stuck in the bottom, and rather than wait
around and maybe die, the finishers headed for the beach. When they got
there they were glad. The afternoon was spent drinking beer and watching
18 foot Skiff videos.

Sunday Race 2

The breeze blew itself away, leaving a nice 6-8 knot breeze from the
South. The other fleets had seen enough on Saturday, so did not show on
Sunday. The 5o5ís were going out, even though we only had three boats.
The teams changed as Ali Meller and Rene de la Rie showed up. Harris/de
la Rie clearly won the start with Meller/Marini footing to the left
side, while Papadakis/Johnson were pinching to stay in clear air above
Harris/de la Rie. Papadakis/Johnson could not maintain their lane and
bailed out right looking for velocity. They found it and when they came
back were crossing both boats. Papadakis/Johnson rounded the weather
mark first with Meller/Marini second and Harris/de la Rie third. They
were no changes on the reaches and as the fleet rounded the leeward
mark, Meller/Marini headed hard left looking for that puff they wanted
on the first beat. They found it and were easily winning as they rounded
the weather mark and set their chute for the downwind finish.
Papadakis/Johnson were second, with Harris/Falsone third. Sol Marini is
feeling quite confident with two races in a 5o5 and two victories.

Race 3

The breeze is getting lighter and Meller/Marini (now sailing as
Marini/Meller) are still convinced the left is the way to go.
Papadakis/Johnson take a more all-encompassing view and try to play
shifts up the middle. Harris/de la Rie, well, Harris is pissed about
finishing last in every race this weekend, having won the Albacore
Nationals the week before for the third year in a row. He covers
Marini/Meller viciously and succeeds in rounding the top mark in first,
with Marini/Meller a close second and Papadakis/Johnson hopelessly last.
No changes took place during the rest of the race. Harris is ecstatic,
Marini is no longer undefeated.

Race 4

With the breeze becoming painfully light and coming from WRSC Clubhouse,
Allan Johnson demands that the last race be one beat, finish at the
dock. (Fleet Captain privilege) Papadakis/Johnson port tack the fleet at
the start and then roll on to starboard to cover the boats going left.
This hurts Harris/de la Rie and they tack into a hole, stop and start
going backwards. It looks like a two boat race, up the left side, but it
is very light and a PHRF fleet going to the same location is making
things very interesting. Papadakis/Johnson protect the left and are
looking good for a while until Marini/Meller scoot forward in a puff in
the middle. Then they both stop and Harris/de la Rie are winning the
race in a nice puff on the far right side of the river. The breeze fills
again on the left and Marini/Meller and Papadakis/Johnson are having
quite a battle as they approach the finish line. Meller/Marini attempt
to slam dunk Papadakis/Johnson as the latter duck the former's transom,
but are unsuccessful as Papadakis/Johnson pinch them off for the
victory, with Harris/de la Rie a very close third. What a great light
air race!

With beers in hand, the celebration began as Sol Marini wins his first
5o5 regatta, and Stergios Papadakis finishes second. This regatta was
a lot of fun and shows the heart, attitude and dedication of 5o5
sailors. We didnít have a lot of boats, but no one complained. We had
a scary day, but got a race in any way. We had a very light day in which
all boats eagerly participated in and were rewarded by each winning
a race.

See you all at the MidWinters!

Allan Johnson
