West River Mid-Atlantic Regatta

Henry and Doug Amthor of Hampton Yacht Club won 5 of 7 races to dominate the
West River Mid-Atlantic Regatta - held June 8-9 at WRSC - convincingly. The
Amthors throwout was a 2nd! When in front they could stay there, and when
behind, they were able to work their way through the fleet, either by sailing
the shifts upwind, or by careful downwind angles. In one race they passed three
boats on the last (half length) beat to finish 2nd. Their 505, 8012, is a 1987
or '88 Waterat, virtually identical to eight of the other 505s in the regatta.

Conditions were mostly marginal trapezing, with planing upwind in the last
race, and some painfully light air in the 6th race. The Jet 14 fleet ran good
races for the 505s - Thanks!

In addition to the Amthor's win, the Southern Bay 505 fleet demonstrated their
strength with Jim Englert/Thad Melton tied for 3rd.

Andrew Cole of Miami arrived with his Classic 505 for his summer sailing
instructor job, in time to race the event with two different pick up crews.
Andy's Parker 4565 is showing the benefit of Andy's re-rigging efforts, and is
much more competitive than it was last year.

The number of new faces in the fleet was significant, with Eric Johnson sailing
his first 505 regatta - and finishing 2nd! Sterg Papadakis sailed his first 505
regatta (trying out two different skippers), as did Jennifer Baltz, Austin
Bishop, Bill Gross, Peter McChesney and Dirk Scwenk (recruited from the Jet 14
Race Committee). Welcome to the 505 class! Jesse Falsone, Paul Heads and Chris
Ryan are now up to their 3rd event after joining the fleet.

Recent growth in Fleet 19 (Peter Mignerey, George Saunders, Jennifer Baltz and
Barney Harris all buying boats, and Paul Heads chartering one) was evident, as
all the new boats except George's (which is being rebuilt) were out on the race
course.

We hope to see George's boat back on the water soon along with Jonathan
Phillips's for the next local regatta in Hampton. Practice sessions every
weekend until then!

Ali
