'Duane Delfosse' via 505 USA Region One

Lake Sunapee Invitational

On August 24-25 nine 505s convened at beautiful Lake Sunapee in New
Hampshire for the Lake Sunapee Invitational. Three classes were invited,
Star boats, ILCA (Laser) and 505s. This was the second of two multiclass
events sponsored by Lake Sunapee Yacht Club, the other being a Viper and
Flying Scott event this past spring. Teams travelled from Ottawa,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Virginia to race 505s this weekend.

Weather for the weekend was warm and sunny, however the breeze was not
as reliable as is usually the case in late August on the lake. On
Saturday the RC got off the first two races in a shifty northwest wind.
Conveniently, between races the breeze decided to shift 60 degrees to
the left for a west southwest third race. Despite the shift to the left,
the right typically paid for pressure, but there was often a starboard
tack header as you approached the weather mark. It ended up that
overstanding the starboard tack layline proved to be a winning strategy
as the pressure differential was more substantial than the angle. Tom
Kivney and John Ingles were on top of the shifts and lulls winning the
first race, followed by Marie Gendron/Adam Gesing and Luke
Strickland/Christian Voyer. Race 2 saw sailors become more familiar with
the conditions. Paul Taylor and Sol Marini took the gun followed by
Delfosse/Hull and the Huebner team, Amie and Ted. Race 3 in the new
breeze proved to also be a "go right" theme, but the middle and left at
times looked tempting. The fleet was stretched out at the first mark.
Delfosse/Hull were consistent to take the gun followed closely by Luke
Strickland and Christian Voyer in second, and Paul Taylor and Sol Marini
in third.

Sunday looked weak from a forecast standpoint, and unfortunately the
meteorologists were correct. We waited until just after 12:00 before we
heard the cancellation signal. There was some vindication for this
decision because the fleet of Sonars that were planned to race in the
afternoon were also shut out. Winning the event on a tie breaker was
Duane Delfosse and Mike Hull. Second went to Paul Taylor and Sol Marini
who had speed and precision throughout the event. Third went to Tom
Kivney and John Ingles. It should be noted different teams won each of
the three races.

I have been following the progressive improvement in recent events (in
both the US and Canada) of Luke Strickland and Christian Voyer. They
placed a solid fourth in a new boat that they just acquired from Jeff
Boyd counting a 2, 3 and 6. That 2 was nearly a 1, and on lake Sunapee
anybody can score a 6! They will be a force in the future!

Lake Sunapee Yacht Club found housing for all asked for it, and the
contestants seemed to enjoy the scenic beauty of Lake Sunapee. Make this
event a priority next year!

