Ted Huebner

2024-06-17 19:42 GTM

Saturday
4 races

The breeze was westerly to southwest and back to west then northwest.  That
meant it was super shifty and gusty all day.

The first couple races were challenging in that, beyond the general shiftiness,
the changes in velocity were huge.  Skippers were moving a lot in the boat and
complaining while crews were on and off the wire both upwind and down.  Finding
pressure and transitioning well were huge as boats could hook into a puff
downwind and immediately wire out of it, or sit run with it for lanes, but if
you did it just right you could hook in and wire around folks so boats were
passing and getting passed a lot.  Boat handling mattered and you could tell
some boats were doing their first event of the year (or couple of years in our
case) so some swimming put some larger numbers on the board throughout the day
but we generally remembered how to sail 505s putting a three on the board in
the first race.

We thought we were going to crush the second race when we got left into the
massive lefty and had all of the other boats in sight trough the main window
while we were planing to the windward mark on the port tack lay line.  Then the
breeze went back right and we were much less happy but ground through the fleet
working transitions and pressure the rest of the way to wind up second in the
second race as Duane and Mike were tough to catch.

The breeze went back west and built leading up to race three where local buoys
were seeing shots above 20 so a lot of rake was in and some teams were
flattening.  We felt like we had great speed off the start and generally fleet
managed up the first beat then sent it on the wire downwind.  We sent it too
far as it turned out, but everyone went with us so almost everyone was jib
reaching into the bottom gate and we managed to hang on through the rest of
race three.  We liked the pattern of remembering how to sail going 3,2,1 so far
for the day and joked that it was time to screw it up.

We promptly did.  The breeze dropped a fair bit as we prepped for race four but
folks were still on the wire, mostly.  We, read I, definitely didn't have a
great race four when we needed a good tack to hold Tom and Keith off I figured
out new and interesting ways to wrap my foot in a sheet through the tack which
allowed Tom to just get his nose clean and power away in a low mode that paid
as he got out to the right shift that the Irish had sniffed out earlier rode to
the win.

The consensus from teams after the day was in fact no consensus on what worked,
but Duane and Mike seemed to have figured it out the best dropping a 2.  Yes
drops kicked in after 4 races ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ but that means the Irish tossed their
6th and the lead two boats were tied on 5 points after 4 races and we were 1
point back goign into Sunday.

Sunday 2 races Light forecast generally but with big gusts in there.  Nobody
was sure about if/when/how the front pushing through would affect things so the
505 fleet made a group decision to hold ashore while the F18s drifted out to
the race course.  Much discussion was had, in addition to the good debrief from
Saturday, about setting up the boats with the young Canadians who came down,
while watching Peter's masthead fly go in circles.  We saw some ominous wave
formations in the clouds but eventually a reasonable breeze settled in so Duane
thought we should go and settle it on the water.

Mike and I decided to sail our throw out in the first race and Duane decided to
win the race while the Irish came second.  That put the top two one point apart
going into the last race for an epic showdown.

The showdown was a bit anticlimactic as the breeze decided to shut off shortly
after the start and the RC shortened from a W4 to a W2.  It was looking good
for Duane and Mike as they punched out and were first to the weather mark and
the fleet followed them downwind - mainly.  Some decided they had had enough
floating around and started working their way in as the current was really
starting to rip.  We decided that the current was going to be a problem while
it was super light but we hoped there was some breeze to come so we gybe set
around the weather mark and put the pole to the forestay and just kept the boat
moving in the light.  Weight all the way forward, like crew sitting on the
foredeck and trimming over my shoulder forward, and a bit of leeward heel kept
the kite full while we chased the smallest bits of pressure and we sailed by
folks who were getting sucked down the course by the current.  We wound up
sneaking by Duane to win the last race but Duane and Mike won the consistency
award and the event putting another 2 on the board for a total of 8 points kept
from 6 total races.

Well done to Duane and Mike for putting the time and effort in to be at the
front of the pack in every condition you could find and taking the event.

Also a huge shout out to Luke and Christian coming down from Canada and making
a new to them and light air optimized Waterat go well in the breeze when all of
their controls were bottomed out while it was blowing Saturday.  There was a
lot of talk about how to set the boat up and optimize systems but it was
awesome to have them and even better to have them fully mixing it up.

One of the highlight comments from the debrief on Saturday was that everyone
was in every position, probably twice in some of the races, on Saturday which
just goes to show how well Duane and Mike managed the fleet and racecourse to
never put up less than a 2 while the rest of us were all over the scoreboard.

