505 East Coast Championship
by Henry Amthor

2024-09-25

Nine competitive teams descended on Hampton yacht club for the 2024
ECC’s. Conditions on Friday were moderate trap conditions with 8 to 12
kts offering up some big decisions on whether to wire or sit run. Ethan
Bixby and Ian Mathiesen had it figured out best winning three out of
four races to lead the fleet after day one. A nice debrief with cold
beer and sunny conditions followed under a shade tree led by Macy Nelson
with some good discussion on what went right for the lead teams in heavy
tidel conditions.

Day two offered up a lay day as a strong storm in the Atlantic sucked
the pressure from the southern Chesapeake Bay. It allowed the teams to
get some much-needed boat work done and a visit to that space museum
within walking distance of the club, followed by dinner at a local
seafood restaurant. We also had a group meeting led by Ethan and Duane
to discuss the winter schedule in sunny Florida… and other scheduling
issues for the ECCs next year.

Day three dawned with a promising forecast which came through just in
time for the first start at 10 AM at around 12 kts increasing to 18kts
throughout the day. Craig Thompson and Adam Wolnikowski put the bow
down and took off for the WIN !,..winning the last three races of the
eight race series and repeat East Coast Champions from their 2023
victory .... Closely followed by last year’s runner-up Duane Delfosse
& Mike Hull, who also had quite an edge on the rest of the fleet, both
upwind and downwind with a bullet and three seconds on Sunday..

 Friday’s leaders, Ethan Bixby & Ian Mathiesen showed the lighter teams
 in the fleet how to handle the breezy conditions when you’re all up
 crew weight is on the lighter side with a very consistent 3-3-3-4.
 Rounding out the top 5 were UH & Chris Pfrang(4th) followed closley by
 Rookies Vir Menon & Marian Williams w/ Brian Fox (Friday) 5th. Getting
 faster in every single race they sailed, Vir, Marian & Bryan and also
 another sub 25-year-old team making steady improvements dealing with
 gusts into the 20s were Jackson Montague and Mason Chapman.

These young sailors will be the ones to watch as they get more
experience in the boat.

 Special thanks to our Outstanding race management team including (all
 past 505 sailors) PRO, Mark Wheeler, gate launch superstar Max Plarr
 and Mark boat team headed up by Charlie Brewer, and there crews. In
 addition to their great work on the playground, Max had a unique way of
 delivering post race beers to the crew ( while on the wire for home)
 for some much needed liquid nourishment sponsored by Chris Pfrang from
 USA 9041.

Also many thanks to our HYC housing hosts, ..The Behm's, Chapman's
& Amthor families.

