505 PCC's Santa Cruz
'Mike Holt' via 505 USA West Coast <505-usa-west-coast@googlegroups.com>
16 Sept 2024, 22:47

Over this past weekend of September 14/15 Santa Cruz Yacht Club hosted
the 2024 Pacific Coast Championships. Don Radcliffe and his team managed
to run 5 races in what for different reasons each day, were challenging
conditions. Due to a late change of venues and only a 2 day event, we
had a star studded, but reduced turn out of 17 505’s. However, we had
some new faces joining us and some old faces returning! Great to see you
all!

Saturday was not your typical Santa Cruz day, although the fog cleared
to the beach, the breeze never built above 4 or 5 knots on the race
track. But despite this, Don and team managed to get 2 races away. The
first a one lapper that was won in convincing fashion by AJ and Jon.
Pulling out a 2nd from a mid fleet rounding, by gybe setting into a nice
line of pressure were Mike and Adam and the returning Nic and Eric in
3rd. Race 2 was a 2 lapper. Rob and I managed to lead at the first,
second and third marks, but could not hold off the super fast AJ and Jon
who took their second win, we took 2nd and Howie and Garrett 3rd. With
the little wind we had looking more marginal we were sent back to the
Harbor for beer and a debrief.

As ever, the debrief was full of good information. Probably the key take
aways were to keep the boat moving, flat set up upwind and then downwind
pole forward and keep the boat moving with good communication.

Sunday could not have been any different! From the start the breeze was
ON. We were trying out a new start technique due to a shortage of
resources. We had gate starts with no Gate Boat. This meant that if you
had not started at the 45 second limit you would be DNS. We also had the
last placed boat as the rabbit. For race 3 that was Ian and Luke. With
a generally right hand favored course this meant some decision had to be
made, start early and fast, but going the wrong way, or later for an
earlier tack….

Mike and Adam went the former and were able to cross, just at times to
lead all 3 races at the windward mark. However, with the windspeed high,
getting to the bottom of the course meant nailing lay lines, gybing well
and dousing cleanly, we saw multiple lead changes with the top boats.
However, when the dust settled and where it counts, they won all
3 races. Rob and I had a 2,3,2 and Nic and Eric a 3,2,3. That doesn’t
tell the whole story though. Mike and Blaine in their first event
together were going really well and considering the hours the first
3 teams have put into racing were looking impressive. Pete and Mike also
looked good but probably the standout performance of the weekend was the
father and son team of Nate and Keahi Ho, over from Maul. First time
racing together and completely hanging in the light and particularly the
big breeze.


Thanks to all who made it for the weekend and particularly to Don and
his race team and Santa Cruz Yacht Club for hosting!

Mike Holt
