All-Wood 505 Regatta

Over the last week end, the "Yacht Club de L'ile de France" held a two
day regatta for all wooden 5o5 fully restored with wooden rigs and
cotton sails. 12 of those beautiful boats made the regatta and gathered
to race four races on the river Seine in the exact place where the first
ever 5o5 sailed over Easter in 1954. Among those boats ws F8 skippered
by Marcel Buffet and crewed by its owner Dominique Lambard, F21 owned by
René Gautier and F30 owned by Mr. Moinard. In addition we could see
F331 beautifully restored with its 40 year old yellow sails... F80
nicely repainted, F888 which was stored for over 40 years in a garage
and was taken out after such a long time intact for the race on
Sunday... without getting even a drop of water. This boat was previously
owned by Philippe Briand who finished second at the worlds and became
a famous Dragon skipper.

Two Galettis (much younger) from the 80's joined in the regatta. The
first day was problematic with very light wind. Fanch Wargnier's
Galetti, skippered by Jean-Baptiste Dupont and crewed by Rene Gauthier
took the lead followed by F331 skippered by Monsieur Trompette. Marcel
Buffet caught up and rounded the buoy first but after a beautiful
spinnaker battle lost the race to Jean-Baptiste Dupont who won the race
by 20cms. The second race was abandoned with 8 boats unable to cross the
finish line which was only 20 meters away, due to lack of wind.

In the evening, Monsieur Trompette showed an 8 mm film he had prepared
with scenes taken in 1954 and 1955 of F331 racing on the French Riviera.
Jean-Marie Daniélou joined in and remembered several stories of the age
when he was racing the World in Hong Kong togheter with Marcel. Sunday
was windless until 2:00 pm when a light force 2 which allow for two
races. Fanch's Galetti took the lead at the weather mark followed by
F331 and F8. The race was particularly difficult due to a herd of
Solings racing nearby. Last race was easily won by Marcel Buffet
followed by Fanch's Galetti superbly restaured over the two last years.

Final results:
1	Jean-Baptiste Dupont, Rene Gauthier	Galetti
2	Marcel Buffet, Dominique Lambard	Fairey Marine F8
3	Monsieur Trompette	Fairey Dave F331
4	Galetti

Overal a wonderful weekend with a lot of nostalgia and great
athmosphere. Over 30 of these boats are now listed and being restored.
Next year event will be held in Saint Fargeau.

Best regards
Jean-Baptiste
