Mike Holt
2018-10-30

All,

Last weekend the last California regatta of the year was held. Due to
a container heading to Freo numbers were down on the usual attendance
and those that decided shopping, gardening or reading a book was
a better option missed out on a fantastic weekend of racing.

Saturday started with some low clouds and fog and breeze a little left
of usual. With a flood tide and wind starting out as marginal trapping,
playing the beach was the play, but doing so with the lifting lefty
puffs was the gold. Reeve and Mike started out hot with the win in race
one, although Pat and Jeff are probably still kicking themselves, giving
up the lead on the beat and then gybing to the beach downwind to set the
scene for the day, Rob and Mike 2nd, Paul and Pierre 3rd with Andrew and
Tim have a great race close behind in 4th. I think they led every race
at some stage, but got themselves on the wrong side of too many shifts.
Steve and Bob took the win in the next race, passing Reeve and Mike
downwind, before Reeve and Mike got back to winning ways in Race 3 as
the wind built to full wire running conditions. Race 4, yes 4 races in
one day, we were earning the lovely food and beer St Francis Yacht Club
kindly supply, was won by Rob and Mike with everyone close on their
heels.

Sunday was an almost carbon copy on the weather, starting in marginal
trapping and ending with the rigs back a couple of inches and full on
wire running. Overnight the points were close, Reeve and Mike held
a 1 point advantage over Rob and Mike, with Steve and Bob back a couple
more and Pat and Jeff and Andrew and Tim not out of contention despite
an OCS. Rob and Mike took the win in race 5 from Pat and Jeff moving
them into the lead but with a discard now in scores were getting closer.
Race 6 and Steve and Bob took charge to win from Rob and Mike, with much
place changing and really close racing it really could have gone any
way. But now the points were; Rob/Mike on 8, Steve/Bob 11, Reeve/Mike 11
and Pat/Jeff on 15. All to play for.

Reeve and Mike pushed hard on Rob and Mike, forcing them out to the
current, but in doing so gave Pat and Jeff the advantage on the beach.
The fleet all compressed on the beach and lots of tacks and place
changes took place as we all took our chances on the beach, we hit
bottom as I suspect did others and I am sure the beach goers had an up
close and personal experience as we battled to the windward mark. By the
first mark Pat/Jeff led, followed by Rob/Mike then Steve/Bob, it stayed
the same way down the run and the following beat saw Mike and Rob glued
to Reeve and Mike. Pat and Jeff managed to find themselves on the wrong
side of the pressure again and Rob and Mike, despite their best efforts
to let Pat and Jeff stay ahead found themselves in the lead. A fast run
down to the finish saw lots of gybes as everyone tried to find a way
through to improve their positions. But where it mattered, at the
finish, Rob and Mike took the win, giving them the event, Bob and Steve
2nd, giving them second a 4th enough for Reeve and Mike to take 3rd
overall.

As ever a really well run and fun event from St Francis and their race
team.
