505s at St. Francis Yacht Club
Updated 10:47 PM June 16, 1997

Over the weekend of June 14th-15th, the 5o5s, I-14s and Europes gathered at The
St Francis Yacht Club to sail on the City front in hope of some good heavy air
racing. We got what we came for, and then some! Saturday morning when we showed
up there were already whitecaps on the bay with the wind from a more northerly
direction than normal. We had three races on Saturday all double windward
leewards. Team McLube (Mike & Howard) scored 1,1,1,1,3,1 to take regatta
honors.

In the first race strong wind and a big ebb tide made the right side favored.
Jay Kuncel and Mike Holt led at the weather mark. On the run most of the fleet
headed to the beach to escape the strong current, while Jay & Mike, and Mike &
Howard split to the middle of the bay to look for more wind, they found it, 20
Knots +. Jay & Mike jybed early while Team McLube carried on to the lay line to
stay in more wind. This paid off giving them a good lead to hold off all the
big boys the rest of the race.

In Race Two the wind shifted 40 degrees left giving us a one tack beat. Uli
Coblens & Dan Thompson with the best upwind boat speed on the race course
rounded first, with Craig Perez & ???? hot on there tail. This time it paid to
stay out of the current. By doing so Craig & ??? took the lead. Uli and Dan
rounded the leeward mark second, but had to retire with a rip in their
mainsail. At this point the wind shifted back right and kicked in with
authority. The next run gave everyone a thrill ride with a steady 25 knot
breeze. The positions stayed the same until Craig & ???? rolled it in on their
jybe. This gave Team McLube the lead, with Bruce Heckman and Jeff Miller in
second and Jay and Mike in third.

For the Third Race it started to get windy. I think only 5 5o5s, 1 I 14 (Ed. A
fourteen sailor reported that 3 14s finished), and 3 Europes finished the race.
Up the final beat rigs were shaking in the 40 knot gust. Team Mclube took
first, Heckman & Miller were second until they were blown over sailing upwind
with both sails flogging, and lost their rudder. This gave second to Jay and
Mike, and third to Uli & Danny. After the finish Jay & Mike, and Team McLube
popped the chute for a 40 knot downwind ride of a lifetime. Fast doesn't
describe it with justice. (P.S. we wiped out on the Jybe)

Day Two. Moderate breeze compared to the day before, only 20 knots. We had
three races, all races a triangle with marks to port followed by a windward
leeward with marks to starboard. (A St Francis Special.) We had good tight
racing with Heckman & Miller winning Race 4.

Race 5 Team McLube won with second going to Matt Sanders & Bruce Edwards. Matt
has came out of retirement to fill the spot of Dave Shelton who could not sail
because was looking for reception halls for his up coming wedding.

The Final race had Team McLube win again with Heckman & Miller close behind and
Uli and Dan in Third.

Everyone had a good time gearing up for the North Americans - in Long Beach
next month - see you there!

-Mike Martin
