505 Halloween Regatta Report

Ahhh, the sweet smell of smog on a not even close to crisp fall day in Long
Beach.Typical fall conditions greeted 6 teams of 505 sailors for the 1997
Halloween Regatta held at the Alamitos Bay Yacht Club on November 1st.
Prevailing conditions for the day were dictated by a weak Santa Ana (offshore
crap-shootbreeze) which kept temperatures in the 90's and winds between 0 and 6
knots.

The 1st race got off to a fairly normal start in a light southwesterly breeze.
Mike Martin and crew Howard Hamlin made a beeline for the left side of the
course followed closely by Kevin Taugher and crew Bruce Tilley and Dan Thompson
and crew Uli Coblenz. Carisa Harris and crew Steve Bartz, Nick Adamson and crew
Ben Benjamin, and Swiss imports Urs and Hers (his girlfriend) played the early
right hoping (praying!!) for the stronger westerly to fill in. Allright, now
that all the names have been mentioned (sorry to Urs and his girlfriend!) I
will stick to first names. Navigation is always a treat for visitors to Long
Beach because the ABYC Race Committee loves to use its highly visible 6"
diameter 5' high permanent cylinders as marks. These are found about 50 yards
off the breakwater or shore and can be as easily picked out as a needle in a
haystack from a distance of over a quarter mile. Needless to say, it pays to
keep an eye on the locals and to stay away from the deep corners! As usual,
Mike and Howard came smoking out of the left in a nice puff off the breakwater
to take the lead at the first mark. Dan and Uli did a nice job of crossing to
the right side of the course halfway up the leg to round 2nd. Kevin and Bruce
battled Nick and Ben to round 3rd and 4th followed by Urs and Hers and Carisa
and Steve in that order. It was about this time that the offshore and onshore
breeze began an epic battle which left a large hole in the middle of the
course. The leaders saw their lead evaporate and it became a guessing game as
to where the new breeze would come in. When the smoke cleared at the leward
mark Mike and Howard were still in the lead followed by Nick and Ben, Urs and
Hers, and Kevin and Bruce. Dan and Uli and Carisa and Steve had hit major holes
on the downwind leg and rounded several hundred yards behind. The four boats in
the lead pack played the right side and concentrated on conservative covering
tactics while the two trailers banged the left corner for all it was worth. At
the finish line the breeze was all left. Mike and Howard squeaked across the
line in front of the hard charging Dan and Uli. Nick and Ben outdueled Urs and
Hers to finish 3rd and 4th. Carisa and Steve rode the lefty in to finish 5th
with Kevin and Bruce finishing in 6th.

The 2nd race started in the void of nothing that consumed the center of the
course. The windward and leeward marks were in normal breeze, but you had to
cross the void to get to them. Kevin and Bruce played the puffs pefectly on the
right side to take the lead at the windward mark. Nick and Ben and Urs and Hers
followed in 2nd and 3rd. The 3 leaders were then forced to sail right back into
the void where they began the agonizing process of trying to cross the hole.
The 3 trailers caught up and then joined the fun. After what seemed and
eternity of changing tacks and raising and lowering the spinnakers, a light
westerly filled in to save the day. Nick and Ben were the 1st to catch it and
so reached the leeward mark in the lead. After a lengthly discussion about the
fine points of mark rounding etiquette with a Nacra road block, they finally
headed up to the finish line followed very closely by Carisa and Steve and Dan
and Uli. After a frustrating leg, Kevin and Bruce rounded 4th followed by Urs
and Hers and Mike and Howard. The westerly continued to pick up which favored
the right side of the leg. Nick and Ben tacked on layline but failed to get
into the bulk of the velocity. Carisa and Steve made good use of that velocity
to role over them to take the lead and the win. Nick and Ben held off the
charging Dan and Uli to place 2nd and 3rd. Kevin and Bruce finished 4th, Urs
and Hers 5th, and Mike and Howard 6th.

A good time was had by all and we hope to see more California 505's participate
in regattas leading up to the Worlds. If you gottem then sailem!!

Nick Adamson


