1997 Hoosier Regatta

Mike Goldstein and Andrew Gassman



The second annual Hoosier Regatta featured great weather and tight racing for
boats that had converged from all over the Midwest. We had more boats and much
closer racing than last year, demonstrating that the Bloomington fleet is
starting to catch up to the speedy boats from Hoover and Waukegan. We are
learning how to sail these twitchy beasts! Before the regatta, we were worried
about the weather forecast--in October, temperatures in the 80's usually derive
from a stationary and windless high pressure ridge, but the early forecast
predicted wind.

Saturday dawned warm and windless, but by the time we had finished with coffee
and doughnuts there were puffs on the lake and smiles on the sailors. Some even
considered raking. We wound up with 8-12 kts. and shirtsleeve sailing. The wind
came from the left, but it was flukey with big holes. Going left paid if you
caught a puff, otherwise the shorter rightward hitch on port was favored. Many
lengths were gained for boats that went right if the puffs didnUt show.
Graham/Mark were at the front as usual, but Ki /John and Jason/Angela really
made him work for it. Once again, Ki/John amazed us with his inhuman pointing
angles, seeming to sail straight into the wind. Getting caught to windward of
Ki meant a slow pinching death as he clawed up to and on top of you. Local ace
Jason Breeden and his girlfriend Angela were a constant threat at the front,
engaging in tacking duels with Graham and Ki.

Racing was also close in the middle of the fleet. Geoff and new crew Chad, in
their new boat 6660, showed great improvement over last year. They were a
constant threat in the mid-fleet pack and always pressed hard on the last beat,
sometimes nipping a place or two in the final stretch. In the first race,
Rick/Rick capsized near the windward mark, digging their mast so deep into the
mud that the finish line had to be moved! So this is what happens when you lose
the "sacred sponge".... After four races, a stable pattern had emerged in the
finishing order (see below) but Sunday had a few surprises in store.

As the sun settled over Lake Lemon the tired but happy sailors gathered Tround
the big table in front of the boathouse. Mike and Andrew fired up the Nebraska,
an ancient cast-iron grill, and soon we all enjoyed some serious BBQ. It felt
like having the extended family over for Thanksgiving--lots of catching up with
friends, good stories from Graham about past Worlds, and the conversations
lasted into the warm night.

Sunday morning looked like the day before, but again the wind came up as we got
the boats on the water. Conditions were similar to Saturday--you had to watch
for puffs and avoid the holes. Mike and new crew Andy "no I won't let go of the
trapeze handle" Korsch finally figured out a reliable starting sequence and
were in the top four at the windward mark. However, Barret (just turned
13)/Andrew repeatedly bamboozled Mike/Andy with clever tactics and some fake
tacks. Barret even threw a fake fake tack, fooling his own crew, dropping
Andrew in the water on what wasn't supposed to become the leeward side.
Thoughts of match racing were quickly cast aside when Phil/Susan and Marty/Kim
came roaring down the reaches. Phil/Susan were fast when they found the wind,
and if they got past there was no catching them. Marty/Kim got out of their
Thistle and into a 505 for the weekend, and they did well when they could keep
it flat. Kim had that wild-eyed look that comes from the first true trapeze
ride, so we know theyUll be back.

After the racing, we fired up the Nebraska again while out-of-towners derigged
and the race committee sorted out the results. The "most improved" award went
to Rick and Rick, who arrived with a 505 -- last year they showed up with a
420. Despite losing their "sacred sponge", they showed some good form along
with the regattaUs only capsize. In the last race they spooked the fleet with a
come-from-behind move on the last run. Screaming their signature war cry
"ARRRRGGHH", they rode their own private puff right over half the fleet. If
their boat could be fueled on enthusiasm alone then they would have won the
regatta! The race committee of Tom Sparks, Charlie Eastwood, Mike Gleeson, and
nine-year-old Samuel Rhoads did a fine job despite ripping the top off the
committee boat at the dock. They quickly rigged a pole and halyard for the
racing pennants and the regatta went off without a hitch.

A special thanks goes to Art Mindheim, head of IUYC, for his willingness to
promote and maintain a club-owned 505 fleet in addition to providing a great
venue in which to race. He will be retiring in the spring and we will miss him.
His legacy of a racing fleet will continue as we learn more about the boats,
get more people involved, and expand the racing program.

There is a real renaissance of 505 racing in the Midwest. People and boats that
haven't seen the water in years are coming out of the woodwork, and many
newcomers got their first taste of 505 sailing this summer. Regatta attendance
is on the rise. As the sailors prepared to go their separate ways on Sunday
afternoon, many conversations were punctuated with thoughts of meeting at St.
Petersberg in January and Hoover in the spring. We are looking forward to a
great season in 98!



Hoosier Regatta 1997
Indiana University Yacht Club, October 4,5
Bloomington, IN
