Hampton Trapeze Regatta
Just a short note while waiting for the complete article to come in.....

The Hampton Trapeze was held by Hampton Yacht Club, the May 17-18 weekend.
Eight 505 teams participated. The local Hampton One Design Class had a larger
turnout of 12-13 boats, but they quickly dwindled to three in the 15 knot
breezes of Saturday. Three Mobjacks also raced - this was the first year the
Mobjacks had been invited.

Jesse Falsone - who normally crews for Barney Harris in 8643 - drove Barney's
new Waterat for this regatta with friend and 505 novice Bryan Russell on the
wire. Steven Brown and Allan Freedman showed up for their 2nd regatta in 7573,
the Parker Steven bought last fall. Greg Schuster turned up in gorgeous
Parker-hulled Lindsay 6495,and sailed, but did not start any races. The famed
Gary Bodie/Kevin Eley team, long time East Coast 505 stars and 7th at the '90
Worlds showed up in 8660, the Lindsay they have chartered for the spring
regattas. Mark "Wheels" Wheeler - one of the top East Coast 505 sailors when he
drove with Alan Kilgore on the wire - turned out for his 2nd regatta crewing
for Ken Elliott in still mint condition Lindsay 7092, the boat he used to race
with Alan. Jim Englert/Thad Melton had been practicing in 8645, their new
Waterat, as had brothers Henry and Doug Amthor, winners of the Chesapeake Bay
Champion of Champions regatta - Star Wars - and Bermuda Race Week within the
past month.

Saturday conditions were perfect for 505s with winds of about 15 knots. While
Greg chose not to race, but simply sailed around the area, the seven other
teams all completed 4 races. Meller/Johnson had excellent speed upwind and
crisp boat handling to win all four races. Steven Brown/Allan Freedman defeated
one of the brand new Waterats in the first race and went on to finish every
race, in this only their second regatta, despite conditions that saw several
505 capsizes and a very high attrition rate amongst the Hampton One Designs.
Englert/Melton, Bodie/Eley and Amthor/Amthor split the 2nds between them, with
Elliott/Wheeler fighting it out with them. One of the highlights of the day was
Henry "Daddy" Amthor falling out the back of the 505 with the spinnaker sheet
in one hand and the tiller extension (sans tiller and rudder) in the other.
Henry, I doubt young Keaton was pleased with that performance.... or maybe she
was....

After an incredible day of racing the fleet adjourned to Kevin and Sue Eley's
home for an excellent BBQ, some good stories, and another Hampton creek
cruise/crawl. Amazingly everyone was ready to race the next morning, but
conditions failed to cooperate. After waiting two hours for wind, the RC was
able to start a race in a very marginal trapezing breeze. Englert/Melton led
around the first triangle, pulling away from heavyweights Meller/Johnson on the
reaches, with Bodie/Eley very close behind. Meller/Johnson were trying a new
North main, and were able to generate exceptional pointing upwind, which got
them back within striking distance at the 2nd windward mark. A knotted
spinnaker halyard delayed Englert/Melton's hoist, and allowed Meller/Johnson to
get close enough for an intense gybing duel down the run to the finish. Shortly
before the finish, heavyweights Meller/Johnson were able to get by lightweights
Englert/Melton and held them off to the finish, protecting their string of
wins. Despite excellent upwind speed putting them close to the lead at first
windward marks, Bodie/Eley were a little off the pace on the runs, and lost the
Amthors and Elliott/Wheeler in both of Sunday's races.

Meller/Johnson won a close 6th race over Englert/Melton, who consolidated their
hold on 2nd overall. Star Wars and Bermuda Race Week Champions Henry and Doug
Amthor were 3rd, Bodie/Eley were 4th, Elliott/Wheeler 5th, Falsone/Russell 6th,
and Brown/Freedman 7th.

As always, the HYC Race Committee did excellent work, getting 6 races in
despite no wind on Sunday morning. All out of town 505ers were billeted at the
Amthors - Thanks for all the beer, Henry!

The 505 East Coast Championship will be at HYC on June 6,7 and 8, and promises
to be another outstanding regatta.
