2018 North American Championship report
Aaron Ross
2018-08-22

This is what happens when the winner is responsible for the regatta
report, or at least the headline:

Martin and Lowry Dominate 5o5 North American Championship at StFYC

Mike Martin and Adam Lowry got out front early and stayed there through
eleven races over four days of competition at the 505 North American
Championship at St. Francis Yacht Club August 9-12, 2018. With a picket
fence after two discards, Martin and Lowry of St. Francis Yacht Club are
the North American Champions.

“We couldn’t be happier,” said Martin of the win. “We sailed well across
the full spectrum of conditions. Taking an early lead certainly took the
pressure off. With such a diversity of conditions, we knew we didn’t
have to take as many chances.”

The battle for second place was much tighter, with just eight points
separating second from fifth, ultimately shaking out in favor of Howard
Hamlin and Andy Zinn (ABYC/NHYC).

“It’s never felt better to finish second,” said Hamlin. “These guys are
the best and no one was even near them.”

Ted Conrads and Jeff Nelson, of Donner Lake, had a strong final day and
finished third overall. Jesse Kirkland and Reeve Dunn (RBYC) were
holding strong at second over three days of races, but slipped to
fourth. The top three teams all had World Champions aboard, with the
event boasting a total of seven.

“Everyone that beat us was either a World Champion or a former Olympian,
so it’s the best fifth place I’ve ever gotten,” said Parker Shinn, who
sailed with Eric Anderson (StFYC/YCYC).

Strong winds challenged the middle two days, with 25 knots sustained
wind closing down racing early on day two. A heavy flood tide on day
three made for long upwind battles and more than a little carnage.

“Current was a big factor,” said Lowry, who cited a slight homefield
advantage. “It’s true of all of us who are part of the St. Francis team
that when the current gets crazy you’re engrained and know how to figure
it into your tactics.”

The ocean’s an equal opportunity opponent, punishing both locals and
visitors with potentially game-ending breakages, ultimately working in
favor of StFYC’s Blaine Pedlow and David Meleney, who won a new jib from
Glaser Sails for snapping two rudders but sailing through the end of the
regatta.

Other prizes included Yeti Coolers for the top five teams, and two
perpetual trophies: the Dennis Surtees Service Award, which went to Pip
Pearson, and the Dave Cahn Sportsmanship Award, earned by Carl Smit.

