Blaine Pedlow
15 Sept 2021, 20:22


505 Enthusiasts,

Thank you all for joining us for the inaugural 505 Intergalactic Harris Bay
Championships, hosted by the CBC and the Bellingham 505 fleet! This was a fun
regatta this year with a blend of light- to medium conditions, lots of movement
on the scoreboard and great camaraderie among the fleet. We were excited to
share the racecourse with the I14s who were hosting their National
Championships on Bellingham Bay the same weekend.

Here's a quick recap - edits, corrections and ridicule encouraged!

Friday - No race scheduled, but would have been great if there had been one!
Nice breeze out of the South gave some great trapezing conditions upwind and
down. My jealousy was in full swing while watching a 20-month-old and sharing
spreadsheets on Zoom.

Saturday - the best breeze was early in the day as we sailed out to the
racecourse. Conditions varied from 9-10 knots around 1030am and eventually died
to five knots around 3:30. A long course and the southerly breeze kept the
geography of Post Point and the current along the shore in-play - getting left
was key.

Sunday - lighter conditions in general, with the breeze farther south, but with
significant shifts. We postponed ashore for an hour or so, then the RC was able
to start just before 1pm. Three short races were sailed in marginal trapezing
(maximum knee pain) conditions. Getting left was key again, except when it
wasn't (like with a 20-degree righty on the first race of the day)!

This was super-close racing -- lots of lead changes and the scoreline was
tight! Only a point separated each team from 2nd through 5th.

Some shout-outs:

AJ/Blaine - didn't really sail a throw-out and always in the top few boats.
Consistency won this regatta, although motorcycle style needs some
improvement... And AJ remembered how to sail after 4 years away!

Jackson/PVG - recovered from a tough day-1 to sneak in through the open door in
2nd. Great sailing in light air with Paul showing he makes everyone faster! A
surprising Tufts Jumbo 1-2 at this NW event.

Miles/Riley - an over-zealous lineup on Sunday morning or urgency to get to
shore Saturday afternoon for Below Deck - Sailing Yacht re-runs kept them out
of the money. Always fast and especially dangerous when you need to get left,
these guys were one letter finish away from the regatta win.

Mike/Carol - unbeatable in the light air on Saturday afternoon with perfectly
honed motorcycle style on the runs. Fast and smart, plus the other teams are
jealous when Carol is low on the wire and they're still hiking...

Elsa/Jack - Great speed and consistency has Elsa considering an upgrade to a
younger, more compliant model of crew. They were the only team to nearly hold
off Mike and Carol on Saturday afternoon, being nipped at the finish of Race 4.

Alyosha/Stasi - these guys found their groove on Sunday. Really fast when
hiking and excited to see them in their new boat. A force to be reckoned with
soon in this deep fleet.

Anne/Chris - Lots of crossings in the top-five, and they made a couple stick
until the finish. Always a pleasure racing against these guys and seeing photos
of the impressive new venue in Coupeville.

Ian/Colin - Peg returns! Great sailing from this new team with strong finishes
as they found their groove at the end of the regatta. But questions remain - do
you prefer the blue side or yellow side?

Cedric/Jack - highlight of the regatta was Race 5, when these guys showed great
speed over the full racecourse. Once they find that consistent groove, it's
easy to see that they will be vying for the podium.

Jon/Chris - congratulations to Jon on his first 505 regatta! Maybe not evident
always in the scoreline, but this team's performance improved throughout the
weekend and it will be great to have Jon sailing more in our next events.

Andrea/Tom - Smiles all around, even when Tom is not on the wire. Watch out for
these two when the breeze is a bit stronger and then plan for a delicious
debrief at Le Chat Noir.

Lee/Nick - While we only got one day of these guys, it is great to know that
Lee is back at it! Could it be that he is emerging from year one of twins?
Expect big things in Spring 2022.
