2000 North American Championships

More Race by Race Description

Wrap up Report

Sailing

What an incredible event! Santa Cruz seems like a Mecca for North
American 505 sailors, apparently forever sunny and warm -- endless
summer -- and just past mile buoy, WINDY! The entire event -- including
the practice race/day -- was sailed in 18-25+ knots, though some races
featured holes with rather less breeze.
The classic Santa Cruz weather pattern described by Bruce Edwards did
hold, though with a little more than the predicted 12-18 knots, and with
the lighter wind towards the shore (also described by Bruce) affecting
several races, and making picking one's way up some of the beats and
runs quite a challenge. This light-air-to-the-right phenomenon also
affected gate starts, with the entire fleet trying to start at the end
of the gate when conditions suggested going right, and most trying to
gate early when lighter air inshore and to the right could be seen.

Apart from some interesting holes and shifts in two races, the dead zone
moved out into the race course in one race, causing the middle and back
of the fleet to hoist spinnakers as what should have been a final beat
turned into a light air run. A number of teams were unable to finish
within the timelimit and were scored DNF for this race.

Even if the race course was entirely within the strong sea breeze (so
you could go right), one still had to sail through the dead zone between
shore and sea breezes on the way out for the race, and on the way back
in.

Upwind, you would sail up and then down huge waves, some breaking
nearby. It was hard to see the marks in the waves, and sometimes hard to
see other 505s! Downwind, well, WOOOOWWWWWW!!!!! I remember pushing the
bow down over the crest of a wave and wondering how far down the trough
was - it felt a little like looking at a street from the top of
a skyscraper! There was enough wind to reach-run almost all the time, so
almost all the runs were very fast, and sailed with crews on the wire
and spinnaker pole's on the forestay.

Great Club

For the non-Californians in the large fleet, this event was a reminder
of what a great place to race 505s Santa Cruz is, and what a great club
to race 505s from, the Santa Cruz Yacht Club is. Some competitors were
fortunate enough to be put up on boats in the harbor -- after staying on
a 44 foot Hatteras powerboat for the week, I've had to reconsider my
aversion to power boats -- which made eating and partying at the club
after racing, even more attractive.

Extraordinary Turnout

No one at the event could remember for sure when the last 45
team-or-larger 505 North American Championship took place. We're not
counting those NAs when they are also the pre-worlds, with many who came
in for the worlds also racing the pre-worlds/North Americans, but rather
the "real" North American championships. We think Barrington RI in 1987
was over 40, but we don't know if it was 45 or over. This turnout was
exceptional and a testament to the renewed strength of the 505 class in
North America. It is extraordinary when one considers that not all 505
sailors prefer windy, cold venues like Santa Cruz, and the venue
probably "scared off" a number of less experienced competitors who would
have preferred a somewhat warmer and less windy site. Maybe we'll get 50
plus 505s if we can get a slightly less intimidating venue!

Depth

The depth in the fleet has to be remarked upon. The current 505 World
Champions, Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin, were both there, though now each
steering a 505. Lest you think these two teams are weaker than Mike and
Howard were together, Mike teamed up with Steve Bourdow (an Olympic
medalist in the FD Class, and a top Laser racer), while Howard teamed up
with Peter Alarie (who has won the 505 NAs 3 times, with two different
drivers, and finished second once before, with yet another driver). The
second place team at the 1999 Worlds was racing at this NAs. Jeff
Miller, a three-time 505 North American champion was there, so was Macy
Nelson, another three-time North American Champion. Other standouts in
the fleet included past 505 World Champion Ethan Bixby, Olympian (Laser)
Nick Adamson, top UK 505 sailor Mike Holt, College Sailor of the Year
1995, Ryan Cox, past 470 North American Champion Tim Collins, past
Fireball North American champion Henry Amthor, Albacore Canadian, US and
North American Champion, Barney Harris, Laser star Matt McQueen, junior
stars Joey Pasquali and Rory Giffin (they had to leave the event early
to race for the Bemis trophy (US Sailing Junior Double Handed
Championship), which they are leading as I write this, and more.

Lots of Newcomers

But the 505 class is not just about rockstars, and the number of
newcomers to the 505 class who made it to Santa Cruz was just as
impressive. Catherine Viechnicki/Steven Long (Midwest) were there with
the late '80s Parker they recently bought. Father-and-son team Steve and
Josh Lieberman (second year in 505s) were one of the ten East Coast
teams that shipped their boats to Santa Cruz for the event. Another new
East Coast team racing were brothers Ted and JB Ferrarone, a third new
East Coast team was Dustin Romey/Karl Krauss. The growing San Diego
fleet was represented by newcomers Bill Jenkins/Dan Merino (as well as
Dave Chatham/Matt McQueen who have been in the class a little longer),
Denver by newcomer Erik Cockburn (and lifer Dick Peck racing with
newcomer to sailing Allan Wilson), while the renewed Pacific Northwest
fleet was represented by Paul VonGrey and Peter Tuck. Closer to the
event, Californians Doug Hagen, Bailey White, Evert Meyer, Chris Hanke,
Joey Pasquali, Rory Giffen, Charlie Boukather, Jeff Nelson, Dan
Strellis, Kirstin Guinther, Grant Murray, and Ian West-Lewis are all
recent additions to the 505 class.

For a complete profile of competitors at the NAs, including age, height,
weight, years of 505 experience (ranges from zero to 35!), years of
sailing experience, builder of boat, mast, sails, etc., check the
Competitor Information table.

Team Tuesday

Team Tuesday (the Long Beach guys who practice together every Tuesday
evening) took 3 of the top 4 places at this NAs (and 1,2 at the 1999
worlds in France). This is a very strong testament to their approach,
and creates a very interesting build up to the "show down" in Durban at
the 2000 Worlds. With Ian Pinnell/Nic Powell going very fast in the UK
and Europe, Ian Barker coming back after doing the Olympics in 49ers, as
well as top Swedish, German, French, Australian, and Swiss teams
expected, the upcoming worlds should be a VERY interesting event.

Good 505s Last Forever

Once again the amazing longevity of the US built superboats was
demonstrated, as Hamlin 7201 (built about 1980) was 4th, and Waterat
7349 (built 1981) was 5th.

But you don't need a superboat! The non-superboats (not fully cored
epoxy construction) were at the event in force, with Rondar 6227 and
Kyrwoods 7613 and 7886 all racing.

There were new 505s as well, with two of the three KISS Rondars in North
America racing (actually the fourth was rigged for the owners who just
bought it, a couple of days before the regatta started), and a couple of
recent Waterats.

Post Race Debriefings

Each afternoon, after racing and the daily prize drawings, the top
finishers were debriefed by the fleet. Each team would describe their
tuning setup in detail (referencing the tuning matrix and numbering
scheme that most competitors used), and their tactics. It was amazing
listening to (for example) Mike Martin say the "ram was at 10" and have
at least 3/4 of the fleet know exactly what he means, and be able to
reproduce exactly the same setting.

Social

In addition to two BBQs at SCYC, and lots of free drink tickets,
competitors took advantage of nearby Santa Cruz drinking and dining
establishments. If you were wondering where someone was, you could
probably find them at either the Seabright Brewery, or "The Yacht Club",
a nearby bar.

The relatively leisurely race times -- first gun 12:50 -- made for fun
evenings and leisurely mornings before racing. Apparently one group of
competitors went surfing early one morning.

Thanks

The key organizer behind this event was Bruce Edwards. Thanks Bruce! The
PRO was Dave Wahle of Guerilla Race Management. A significant number of
other people helped run the event, measured sails, and opened their
homes and boats to vistors. Thanks to all of you!
Ali Meller

VP International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

---------------------------

More Race by Race Description

2000 505 North American Championship

45 teams raced the 2000 North American Championship held at the Santa
Cruz Yacht club (also host of the 1992 505 Worlds) in Santa Cruz CA,
August 10-13. No one could remember when the last time such a large
fleet (for a not-also-pre-worlds) North American Championship had
been assembled, attesting to the current strength of the 505 Class.
The talent and depth in the fleet was one of the strongest gathered
in the class' US history, competitors included many past World/North
American/and Olympic Sailors. Entries hailed from all over the US,
Canada, & England. The regatta was a 7 race, 1 throwout series over
four days, sponsored by the Santa Cruz Yacht Club, West Marine,
Ronstan, and Ullman Sails.
Day 1: Race 1 started in a building 15 to 18 knot breeze. Early
leaders around the first triangle were Santa Cruz locals Bruce
Edwards/Dave Shelton, but Mike Martin ('99 World Champion crew)
crewed by Steve Bourdow (FD Medalist) of Seal Beach, CA/Palo Alto, CA
passed the local duo on the last downwind leg to take race 1.
Edwards/Shelton were 2nd, while Howard Hamlin ('99 505 World Champion
driver and 18' skiff European Champion) of Long Beach CA, now racing
with Peter Alarie of Bristol, RI, were 3rd. UK 505 sailor Mike Holt,
racing with Jay Kuncl, was 4th.

Race 2 started in 18 to 22 knots. The first triangle was led by
Canadian Robin Brown and crew John Fry of Seattle WA. They held off
Hamlin/Alarie until the last beat when Hamlin/Alarie slipped by for
the win. Brown/Fry were 2nd, Danny Thompson/Andy Zinn of Long Beach
3rd, while Martin/Bourdow were 4th.

Day2: Day two had 15-24 knot winds with thick fog at times and large
waves. The first race of the day was won by Mike Martin & Steve
Bourdow narrowly over Hamlin/Alarie, with Edwards/Shelton 3rd and
Thompson/Zinn 4th. As typically happens at Santa Cruz, the wind was
stronger at the windward mark than the leeward mark. The windward and
gybe marks were hidden in fog, making navigation skills important in
this race.

Hamlin/Alarie struck back, taking race 4 narrowly from
Edwards/Shelton, Martin/Bourdow were 3rd and Thompson/Zinn 4th.

The 45 boat fleet reveled in the fantastic wind and wave conditions.
The racing was followed by the daily "de-brief" session that has the
top three in each race talk about their set up in detail and their
tactical decisions for the day. This sharing of information continues
to improve the North American standard of 505 racing.

Day 3: Martin/Bourdow took race 5, with the runner up team at the
1999 Worlds, Andy Beeckman/Ben Benjamin 2nd after missing the
previous two races due to a breakdown. Hamlin/Alarie were 3rd
and Edwards/Shelton 4th. These results had Martin/Bourdow and
Hamlin/Alarie tied (counting all races). Martin/Bourdow broke
the tie and clinched 1st place overall by winning race 6.
Edwards/Shelton were 2nd, while Olympian (Laser) Nick Adamson
and Alan Norman were 3rd, and Hamlin/Alarie 4th. These results
determined the top 3 places with one race still to go. Mike
Martin made history as the only back to back 505 NA's winner as
crew one year and skipper the next. Hamlin/Alarie could not lose
2nd, while Edwards/Shelton were assured of 3rd overall.

The conditions were again spectacular as the strong 45-boat
fleet raced for the 3rd straight day on Monterey Bay. Sailing
was 505 nirvana again with 18 to 22 knot winds and large seas.
The major topic of discussion at the post racing de-brief was
heavy air techniques and rig set-ups.

Day 4: Mike Martin returned to crewing as Martin/Bourdow
switched places in the boat. The breeze was lighter for race 7,
with "holes" all the way to the windward mark. Hamlin/Alarie
pulled away from their pursuers and won easily. Bourdow/Martin
retired as the wind got lighter on the last beat. Santa Cruz
locals Jeff Miller/Paul Allen were 2nd, Holt/Kuncl 3rd, and
Edwards/Shelton 4th.

This left the final standings as Mike Martin & Steve
Bourdow(Seal Beach, CA/Palo Alto, CA) 1st. In second place
overall was Howard Hamlin & Peter Alarie (Long Beach, CA/Bristol
RI), followed by Bruce Edwards & Dave Shelton(Santa Cruz,
CA/Santa Cruz, CA) in third, Danny Thompson & Andy Zinn (Newport
Beach, CA/Long Beach, CA) in fourth, and Mike Holt & Jay Kuncl
(Leigh-on-Sea, UK/ Palo Alto, CA) in fifth. Complete results are
on the web at URL:
http://www.int505.org/NA2000/final_results.htm

Other trophy winners were Bill Jenkins & Dan Merino (San Diego,
CA/ San Diego, CA) for both the Vintage Boat Award (they raced
Lindsay 505 6991) and the Dave Cahn Memorial Trophy for
outstanding sportsmanship in the US 505 Class. Paul Tara & Phil
Vandenberg (Ben Lomond, CA/ Santa Cruz, CA) won a brand new
Ullman jib for the highest score while still finishing all
races.

The 45-boat fleet had competitors from the east coast, mid-west,
west coast, Canada and the UK as well as California. Thirteen of
the competitors attending the NA's will be attending the 2000
505 World Championships to be held in November at Durban, South
Africa.

The 505 class is not just about "rockstars", and the number
of recent newcomers to the 505 class who made it to Santa
Cruz was just as impressive, with more than 25 of the
competitors new to the 505 class within the last two years.
For a complete profile of competitors at the 505 NAs,
including age, height, weight, years of 505 experience
(ranges from zero to 35!), years of sailing experience,
builder of boat, mast, sails, etc., check the Competitor
Information table on the web at URL:
http://www.int505.org/NA2000/entrylist.htm.
