National Championships
Hayling Island SC, 9th-12th September
Report: Rob Napier

The exceptionally hot weather for early September gave a very pleasant but
almost entirely light wind regatta. Only on the last day was there a decent
"flat out" breeze, and even that had curious holes and shifts later in the
race. Also, it was the time of big spring tides (one month after the eclipse),
which influenced some races.

HISC was excellent as always; very professional. Robin, the race officer, did
us proud under the circumstances, giving us a full programme of seven races,
albeit some on the short side. In distance, the last race was probably the
longest, even though the Race of the Year on Saturday had its traditional extra
lap. In the tricky conditions and (generally) shortish races, it was not
surprising that most of us had our ups and downs (particularly the latter, it
always seems). So Ian Pinnell's consistency was even more impressive.

The young newcomers Cram/Cram and Robinson/Phillips had their moments, both
with at least one top ten result, and the amazing sight of Chris Robinson vying
with his dad for the lead in race two.

Socially it was fun; HISC brings everyone together, with many staying on site,
and there were more families that in recent years. Altogether a good regatta.

Daily reports were circulated to the UK Circular E-mail List, and posted on the
front page of the Intersail Yachting Magazine. There are also photographs at
www.sailshots.co.uk/505nats1999.html.

--------

International 505 Class
British National Championship & European Cup
Hayling Island Sailing Club, 9 - 12 September
Day 4, Sunday 12th September 1999. Race 7
Upton-Brown and Mitchell take Second from the French
By Rob Napier and Ian Mitchell

With the Championship already win by Ian Pinnell and Nick Powell, the
race was on for second overall. Going into the last race, Philippe
Boite, the French Champion, with his new crew Régis Viateur, had
a slender two-point lead over Mark Upton-Brown & Ian Mitchell and Simon
Payne (in his first 505 Nationals) & Bill Masterman. Ian Mitchell tells
us about the race:

After several calm days, a moderate breeze set in for the final race of
the series. The sun shone on pathfinders Steve Nicholson and John
Mildred as they were lifted and sailed into stronger breeze on the right
hand side of the course to round first. Upton-Brown and Mitchell led the
chasing pack down the first planing reaches of the championship and took
the lead up the next beat. Pinnell and Powell had (for them) made a less
than impressive start but closed down the leaders relentlessly. They
swept into the lead on the run and were never in any trouble from then
on. Upton-Brown and Mitchell held second with Nicholson and Mildred
gaining a first taste of championship success in the 505 with a solid
third place.

