Santa Cruz Fall Event
Mike Holt
2014-09-15

Santa Cruz delivered perfect conditions for the fleets final outing
there this year. Due to some permit and YC issues we had to run the
event as a scored training event. Twelve boats took part in a highly
competitive fleet. Race management was run by Tim Holt, assisted
primarily by Dave and Anna Shelton on Saturday and Aaron Ross on Sunday.
They set up perfect Windward-Leeward courses, with 2 laps taking around
30 minutes. With races of that length we managed to get in 9 races in
all.

However the racing wasn’t the main talking point at the debrief. The
Monterey Bay finally proved why it is a marine sanctuary. As well as the
seals, otters, dolphins and sharks that we know hang out there, this
weekend there was an over abundance of Whales. If anyone reading this is
a member of Greenpeace, time to stop reading now. First of all Jeff and
Pat had a Whale basically come up from underneath them while waiting for
the next race, destroying the rudder attachment and making a mess of the
back of the boat. Then a little later Holt and Reeve attacked one while
sailing upwind. Resulting in some abrasion damage to the board, hull and
Reeve swimming with the sea life.

Meanwhile on the race track and managing to avoid the whales but not
necessarily the kelp, Mike Martin, sailing with Jon Bell on Saturday and
Adam Lowry on Sunday won 5 of the 9 races, Rob Woelfel and I won the
other 4. But all races were close and before they tangled with the
marine life both the aforementioned teams of Holt/Reeve and Jeff/Pat
were going fast and racing in contention as were Howie Hamlin sailing
with Jeff Nelson who had a string of 2nd and 3rds.

Sunday saw the return of Bruce Edwards and Dave Shelton who also pushed
the leading pack hard and with a bit more practice together would have
put significant pressure on the leading teams. I was very impressed at
how much closer the racing is now with the training we have been doing
lifting the performance of all the teams and greatly improving the
races. A year ago in the same conditions the gaps would have been much
greater. Mats Elf and Paul Von Grey had really good speed at times and
Tim Murphy and Geoff Gales were also having their moments. Also looking
good were Pierre Jeangirard and Antoine Laussu, going fast when pointing
in the right direction as were Ian O’leary and Chris. Rob Waterman had
obviously overdone it rigging his new boat as he and Aaron only managed
two races, so no report card for them.

Thanks,

Mike
