St Francis Fall Dinghy
Mike Holt
2014-10-27

This past weekend we had the last event on the California schedule, the
Fall Dinghy at St Francis YC. Early signs were for a less than ideal
forecast with rain on Saturday, although this also came with the promise
of decent breeze. Luckily the forecast was not entirely accurate and by
9AM the rain had stopped and the sun was coming out. After all we can’t
sail in the rain in California. The wind also co-operated and we had
a good breeze around 15 knots with some bigger puffs all day. However
the wind had a southerly component to it, giving us a different race
track than we have been used to.

Three races were ran and some of us, well Rob and I failed to notice the
green flag, signifying starboard roundings. Can you imagine NASCAR going
around the “other way”? Crazy stuff. Anyway it made for good racing with
more place changing than usual. Racing was tight all through the fleet
and it was good to see Nick Adamson out racing, driving Rich Mundel
around, also a first appearance of the Dog n Pony team of Bruce Edwards
and Dave Shelton, yet another team were also on the race track for the
first time in a year, Brian Haines and Ted Conrads were making their
return too. Jeff and Howie won the first race, chased hard but never
threatened, Rob and I managed to pull off victory in race 2 and Brian
and Ted won the third. Seconds and thirds were also shared around,
Justin and JB having some good moments as did Dave and Bruce with a 2nd
in race 3. I was also impressed with the way that Brendan and Eb were
going and but for a tack line failure would have had a good day Saturday
and also Oliver and Tim who are finding more speed. 

After racing it was Taco’s and beer supplied by the YC, spectacular as
ever and lots of tales of greatness and woe on the race track.

Sunday started warm and sunny with the breeze from the North East, the
“wrong direction” as any local will tell you. However the wind was not
to be denied and despite a postponement the breeze would not shift to
it’s “normal” direction so out we all went. A race was held in light NE
breeze, Brian and Ted showing how to sail in those conditions to take
the bullet ahead of Reeve and Holt. The wind now decided to do the right
thing and switched to it’s usual direction coming in under the Golden
Gate bridge. With the ebb now running we had a course set close up
against the shore and a one lap race. The difference in opinion was
whether the ebb was flowing harder in the middle yet or at the edge. Rob
and I along with Brendan and Eb and then Rob and Aaron went “offshore”
to come out well ahead. There was then a long run against the tide back
to the finish, but with the evidence from the beat most boats hugged the
edge. Rob and I held on for the win, Justin and JB crossed 2nd and sadly
for Rob and Aaron their good finish was marred by and OCS…

Another really good weekend of racing, sailed in different conditions
than we are used to which in my opinion made for even more fun. The St
Francis YC of course ran a great event for us and all the other classes
without a hiccup. Many thanks to them and PRO Tony Chargin.

