From: 505-usa-w...@googlegroups.com [mailto:505-usa-w...@googlegroups.com] On Behalf Of Mike Holt
Sent: Wednesday, April 26, 2017 11:07 AM
To: 505-usa-w...@googlegroups.com
Subject: [505-usa-west-coast] Dolphin Cup Report

After many years the 5O5 fleet returned to Monterey for the 2017 Dolphin Cup, a
huge and lovely trophy with much history that has been competed for in many
different classes over the years.

Friday saw a group of 6 boats out training in 8-12 knots and bright sunshine.
Giving the race team at Monterey Peninsula Yacht Club a chance to see what a
gate start looked like and the boats an early look at the conditions. Following
the sailing Eb Russell very generously hosted us all at his warehouse for great
food and beer. We also conducted a good debrief.

For the real racing, starting Saturday, PRO Dino Pick had the course set up off
the beach less than a mile from the harbor entrance, a nice easy sail out, with
a good length course for the 10-12 knot breeze. Five races were held in all for
the 15 boats with no one winning more than 1 race and many place changes,
particularly downwind where it seemed being ahead was never a good thing until
the end! All the races were tight with many being photo finishes. Following
racing the YC put on a great feast and as always a good debrief took place.
Sorry no info here, you had to be there to get the data!!

Sunday and the breeze was up a fair bit, but with some lighter patches and
again a very tricky race track and yet again it didn’t pay to be ahead, until
the finish! Four races were held and again we had 4 different winners! Some of
the best racing that I have had in a long time, fun sailing for sure, but great
racing. All expertly managed by Dino and his race team, even when there were
issues with the gate launch, we just carried on without one!

For the racing, as you can see from the results, everyone had their moments of
brilliance and their moments of shame! I think almost everyone rounded ahead of
at least one World Champion at one stage or another and while the current
Champion’s won the event and the ’14 winning team were 2nd, it was always a
fight and five different teams won races and several others deserved wins
having seen their leads eaten up by teams coming down on new breeze or able to
gybe off in pressure lines that never reached them!

Monterey delivered a great “new” venue for us, great YC, race team and
volunteers in a perfect setting with easy access to hotels and everything we
need. We have to go back again next year!
