Gorge Report
Aaron Ross
2017-08-03

2017 Gorge Report, Must Be Present To Win

Six 505 teams went to the annual CGOD regatta for 3 days of racing,
hosted by the Columbia Gorge Racing Association. The CGRA volunteers did
a fantastic job as always, and the Gorge delivered. At the best place in
the world to sail a 505, everyone present won.

Saturday and Sunday the race course was setup down wind and up river
from Stevenson. This was a nice section of the river to share a course
with the Vipers. I don't recall ever being that far upriver from the
beach, and there is a great cove on the Oregon side to shelter in
between races. Who knew?

Race 1, winds in the high teens. Before the start, Erik and Gabe hit
what they think was a log in Erik's new-to-him Kulmar. They get the
rudder back on and finished the race. Unfortunately it came off again
before race 2 and they got a tow home. The theme of the weekend was
close racing and mark roundings upwind, with the fleet spreading out
downwind, but still with lots of crossings and big gains and losses.
Mats and Brent sailed consistently and won the race. Aaron sailing with
Ian Gregg from Brisbane, Australia benefited from a couple other boats
that stopped for a swim. Ryan and Will suffered ram rot and headed for
the beach for a quick fiberglass repair. Ryan has a really cool cordless
grinder, and they were ready to sail race 3.

Race 2 and the breeze was on. Low twenties with some big gusts. Close
first beat,spreading out downwind, then one by one over 2 laps, everyone
had a gybe that didn't end well. Near the end of the second run, Brent
decides to take a swim, but Mats knew there wasn't time for that and
tried to keep racing. It wasn't long until his capsize, but by that
point Brent was pretty far down current, and couldn't make it back to
Mats. Good Samaritans Lee and Mike took pity on him and delivered him
back to Mats. Mats and Brent go on to finish the race in third. Not long
after their daring rescue on the high seas, Mike decides to go for
a swim. Unfortunately, there were no more 505s behind, and a safety boat
picked up Mike. Reunited, Lee and Mike sail home, but felt they
shouldn't sail through the finish line. End result for Lee and Mike was
a DNF. They must have had a big negative balance in their karma account,
because rescuing a 23 year old with his whole future ahead of him was
not enough. Aaron and Ian take the race with Kerry and Paul in second.
After a few minutes sheltering in the cove, the PRO sends the fleet in
for a beach postponement to see if the breeze would drop. With a few
    broken Viper masts and a third of the 505 fleet out, everyone agreed
    to call the racing for the day. Erik and Gabe start repairing their
    transom and replaced the pintles and gudgeons. The rest of the fleet
    headed down to Thunder Island brewery for delicious beer and prime
    rib.

It blew all night, you couldn't hear the trains over the flapping tents.
But that could have been the beer.

Race 3, Saturday morning started windy, and by the start there was 20
knots. The first beat was very tight, and the run went by very quickly.
Aaron and Ian thought the run was to the short leward mark, but the time
they got their heads out of the boat and looked for the mark, they had
already passed it and rounded the long mark.To be safe, they also
rounded the short mark on the second beat. The fleet followed for the
next lap and Aaron and Ian win, with Kerry and Paul second, Mats and
Brent in third. By the end of the race the wind was mid to high
twenties.

Race 4, do they still say nuking in Hood River? It was nuking, with
gusts over 30. Starting the race at -6 and 2 reefs, proper size crew Ian
Gregg powers Four First Names upwind, and dominated the boom and rail on
the gybes. But it was all for naught. Thinking they knew the correct
course again, Aaron takes Ian around the first leward mark. Erik and
Gabe along with Lee and Mike follow Aaron. We've known each other for
over 20 years, Erik and Lee should have known better by now. We didn't
realize the error of our ways until we hit the beach, and the 3 of us
retired after finishing. On the second run, Kerry and Paul had
a spectacular ride. While reaching along, minding their own business,
a gust hits and they do a huge wheelie, with about two-thirds of the
hull out of the water. They landed ok, then a second, bigger gusts hits.
Hanging out around the finish line upwind of Kerry and Paul, I swear
I could see the leward side hull stripe as everything but 12 inches of
ruddder left this planet and blasted off toward space. Apparently the
second stage rocket boosters failed to ignite and they fell back to
earth. They retired from the race with a PVG shaped hole in the main.
With 2 boats retired on the water and 3 more retiring on the beach, Ryan
and Will were the only team to finish the correct course and took the
bullet.

With the wind staying steady, the race committee sent us in for another
beach postponement. As were were discussing whether to go back out for
2 shorter races, the PRO said they had a solid 28-32 knots, with a few
sustained gusts to 40 at deck level. This was surprising to everyone and
made us realize we are even better than we thought, and that's saying
something. Having already proven how awesome we all are, we decided to
stay on shore, drink beer and play hillbilly golf until dinner.

Races 5-7. The forecast was good for Sunday, and the PRO started an hour
early for the Vipers and 505s to crank some races out. With wind around
14-18, we got 3 very good races in. The beats and mark roundings were
tight, and the top 4 teams traded gains and losses over multiple gybes
on the long runs. Mats and Brent were the most consistent and went
1,2,1. Kerry and Paul kept the boat connected to the earth and finished
2,1,2. Aaron and Ian took 3 thirds. In race 7, Aaron and Ian barely beat
Lee and Mike for third in a line shooting duel that left 2 crews
teabagged and one boat upside down.

Race 8, the wind has built to the low twenties with some bigger gusts.
Proper size crew Ian brought the heat, unleashed the dogs of war and
took no prisoners. With a narrow lead at the first weather mark, Ian
calls for a gybe set. Knowing not to cross this god amongst men, Aaron
abides. The rest of the fleet bore away, and when Ian and Aaron gybe
back to cover, things weren't looking so great. But as we all know,
downwind at the Gorge giveth, and it also taketh away. One of those
private monster puffs hit, Aaron bore off 40 degrees heading straight to
the mark still hundred of yards away, and told Ian that he never doubted
him. That puff never hit the boats along the Oregon shore, and Aaron and
Ian lead around the leward mark 100 yards ahead of the next 3 boats
closely duking it out. An Ian assisted beat allowed for a conservative
run, and with a couple capsizes behind, they throttle back and take the
race. The Big Red Dog finished second in front of Good Times.


Race 9, it was probably good that Aaron didn't know they were tied on
points with Mats and Brent, and Kerry and Paul 1 point out in third. The
race was nearly the same as race 8, and after the second beat, Aaron had
enough time to blow the gybe and wrap the kite tight. Sailing half the
run DDW with an hourglass spinnaker, the heat that Ian brought is enough
to keep the dogs of war unleashed and the chute abides. They held on for
the race win. Mats and Brent finish second in the race and overall, and
the same for Kerry and Paul in third.

At the awards, the PRO announced to everyone, given the conditions and
comparing us to other classes, how well the 505 does and how well the
sailors handle themselves. It was a very nice compliment.  A special
thank you to Susan Winner who keeps these regattas going right on shore,
and PRO Eric Rimkus who was very accommodating to us and would have run
more races the first 2 days if we wanted. And thanks to the rest of the
CGRA volunteers staffing the support boats, setting marks and pouring
beer. Thank you.

The Gorge is the best place to sail a 505, and those that weren't
present lost out.
