505 World Championships 1970

Larry Marks, aided by Victor Deschamps in Muchacha V, retained the W. D.
and H.O.  Wills 505 World Championship title at Plymouth on August
23-28. They had clinched the championship by the Thursday, which was
just as well because they had a minor spinnaker blow-out the following
day, on which they finished 8th, their poorest performance of the week.

A builder Marks wins championships he doesn't drop many bricks. He
travels faster than anybody else because he sometimes has to, due to
safety starts when keeping out of trouble also means keeping out of the
first ten at the weather mark. He had positions of 15, 16 and 34th at
the buoy, for instance, which means s sombre start in half the weeks
races yet, apart from the last race. was never out of the top six from
80 entrants from19 countries. His places were 6-4-1-3-3-8.

It was not a walk-over. Swede Christer Bath could have been a close
challenger but for being one of a handful disqualified for jumping the
start in the first race (Finished 3rd.  One would suspect a biased
decision since the soul female judge on the committee boat happened to
be close related to a top notch British boat... — webmasters remark).
He followed this with a 3lst and 22nd, but when winds came in the second
half of the week he finished up with 1-4-2.

Bath wasn't the only helmsman to go well in a blow. Mike Arnold won the
last race and Derek Farrant the penultimate when the rigging was
humming. But they were not consistent enough, like Gordon Wilson and his
brother Philip, second overall in Freres Bear, who had a disaster in the
first, light-airs, race when finishing 44th then proceeded to finish
7-5-7-6-12 with rare steadfastness.

The championship weather gave everybody a chance, though in the
airyfairy conditions in the early part of the week wrong choice of ends
at the start meant premature disaster. Courses were laid outside the
breakwater, where the 505s had a dummy-run in their Nationals last year,
and they were laid well by Robin Farrant. Two postponed starts to allow
the winds to settle down were particularly prophetic. But there was
little anybody could do about the first race's wind motivation, a shifty
southerly which enforced a 45 minute delay. Then with the modest tide
under them the fleet edged over for three general recalls. On the fourth
attempt they got away but port end bunching caught some out and over
including Christer Bath. Peter Bainbridge won this one in Piranha with
Marc Bouet of France then W. McCready of Ireland next over.

Another Irishman took his turn to shine in the second points race,
Harold Cudmore in Overdrawn leading home the Gadel twins Pierre and
Georges from France. It was another light airs race leaving the heavy
weather boys champing at the bit, Marks moving up eleven places for
a 4th astern of the Buttigieg brothers in Gunrunner.

In the first fresh-breeze race, Marks was the winner handsomely heading
borne the Dane Jan Eppers by 2 mins 10 secs. Cudmore kept in the overall
running with a 3rd. This third points race was postponed an hour, just
right for a south-easter to develop and uplift the Wilson brothers and
Hugh Bourn in Lord Sam 5th and 6th places, astern of Frenchman
Granger-Wacquez in Sherkahn.  Some belated compensation for Christer
Bath came in the forth race he won in the weather the Swedes had been
clamouring for plenty of bluster. Another Swede, Goran Kallfelt in
Barabas finished second but Mike Arnold was thrashing it out with them
when he capsized under spinnaker on the first frantic run. Tenth at the
first buoy, Marks finished third and his consistency was now revealing
his overall title prospects.

With two races to go he now required to finish reasonably high in one of
them to commandeer the title, which he secured with a third in the fifth
points race when he quite happily watched Derek Farrant in Miss 7,
nowhere near a spent force in international gatherings, beat Dane Steen
Christensen for the gun before he himself crossed the line.

Marks watchfully covered Bath who finished fourth and Gordon Wilson ́s
6th place in Freres Bear now ensured he would figure in the fight for
second place overall. In the last race their main danger was Cudmore who
was going flat out and lying seventh when he turned over at the end of
the first reach and limped home in the quarter of the fleet, which took
s hammering from a strong easterly blow. The Wilsons saw his plight and
were quite content to jog round, hardly bothering to use their spinnaker
except park it away neatly, as they almost meambled home 12th, home and
runners-up.

The Royal Plymouth Corinthian Yacht Club and the sponsors W.D. & H. O.
Wills combined, firmly yet unobtrusively, to produce wholesomely
successful championship.
