Nick Adamson<jnadamson@yahoo.com>
2008-05-05, 21:37:06
do 505-north-america@googlegroups.com, 505-usa-west-coast@googlegroups.com, 505west@sailpix.com

Greetings 505 Fleet,

The 2008 Kings of the Bay Regatta had everything you could want - great
wind, great competition, great race committee work, and a great social after
racing. What was it lacking? Boats! It amazes me that we are roughly 1
year away from the 2009 Worlds and all of 9 boats showed up for a regatta
being raced on the Worlds course. Those of you who missed it missed a great
opportunity to improve your knowledge of the venue and conditions. Let's
put it this way, you sure didn't get closer to the top of the fleet by
sitting at home this weekend. The bar is always moving upwards!
As is always the case, this regatta would not have been possible without the
help of a bunch of different people. Huge thanks to Matt Jones, Jeff
Miller, Pete Trachi, Jason Bright, Alan Norman, Dave Guinther, Dan Strellis,
and Ian O'Leary for helping out with Race Committee. Huge thanks to the Cal
Sailing Team and Mark Dowdy for loaning the race committee boats. And last
but not least, huge thanks to Robbie, Amy, Dan, and the entire Treasure
Island Sailing Center staff for their hard work in keeping this facility up
and running and available for the 505 fleet to use.

Here's a recap of the event from my perspective:

We had wind in the 12-25mph range and an ebb tide to race in both days.
Tactically, these conditions favored going _____ (you would know if you
showed up) on the upwind legs and _____ (you would know if you showed up) on
the downwind legs. The top four boats had rake, board, and ram setting
ranges of ______ (you would know if you showed up).

Saturday:
Race 1: Steve Bourdow and I get to the weather mark first only to get
passed by Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn and Mike Martin and Paul Allen on the
downwind. Howard/Andy won, Mike/Paul got second, me/Steve third, and Mike
Holt and Ben Benjamin fourth.

Race 2: Steve and I get to the weather mark first only to get passed by
Howard and Andy and Mike and Paul on the downwind again. I bust my ass to
catch back up and we have the opportunity to win the race in a photo finish
with Howard/Andy and Mike/Paul. Steve missed his trap hook on the final
gybe and was separated from the boat. I finished the race solo then had to
drop the kite and sail back to pick up Steve and re-finish. Howard/Andy
won, Mike/Paul got second, Mike/Ben third, and me/Steve fourth.

Race 3: Steve and I got to the weather mark first and manage to hold on to
the finish! Mike/Paul get second, Mike/Ben third, and Howard/Andy fourth.

Race 4: Too tired to remember any details other than getting rolled like we
were standing still by Mike and Ben at the weather mark, the mainsheet was
damn hard to pull in and the beer was really cold and delicious when we got
back to the dock. Howard/Andy won, Mike/Ben got second, me/Steve third, and
Mike/Paul fourth. Beautiful sight - Mike and Paul wipe out on a gybe,
particularly because they were going to roll and pass us if they didn't.

Sunday:
Race 5: Howard and Andy were over-early and had to restart. Mike/Paul
round the weather mark in first and hang on for the win. Howard/Andy grind
back to second, me/Steve third, and Mike/Ben fourth.

Race 6: Once again Steve and I manage to round the weather mark first
closely followed by Eben Russell and Mattias Kennerknecht and Thad Lieb and
Mike Smith. Howard and Andy catch all of us on the downwind leg and go on
to win the race. Me/Steve finish second, Mike/Paul third, and Aaron Ross
and Rob Waterman fourth.

Race 7: The wind was getting stronger, my arms weaker, and that cold beer
back at the dock more tempting. Mike/Ben got a good start and really got
the boat ripping to win the race wire to wire. Howard/Andy got second,
Mike/Paul third, and me/Steve forth.

Race 8: The wind was really blowing for this one. My thoughts during the
race: "First Beat - Arms tired, stay upright, COLD BEER.... Second beat -
stay upright, COLD BEER, COLD BEER.... Final Run - stay upright, COLD BEER,
COLD BEER, COLD BEER!!!". Mike/Ben had their upwind mojo going again for
this race and rounded the weather mark in first. Downwind was another
story. Howard/Andy managed to slip by on the first downwind and held on for
the win. Mike/Ben managed to survive a complete submarine nose dive on the
final downwind but lost critical distance to me/Steve in the process. Their
kite fouled on the gybe and we squeaked by to finish second followed by
Mike/Paul in third and Mike/Ben in fourth.

Howard and Andy won the regatta with consistent speed, good tactics, and
solid boathandling. You really need all three to compete at this venue.
Mike and Paul ended up second - amazing how fast they were going in breeze
with a 185lb crew on the wire. Steve and I edged out Mike and Ben for third
and fourth, respectfully. It sured helped our cause when those two missed
the 6th race with a breakdown. Aaron and Rob, Thad and Mike, Eben and
Mattias, and Hubert Guy and Antoine Laussu all sailed a solid regatta and
have made very visible strides in their heavy wind performance. It was hard
for them to break into the top four but they were all very competitive and
the gap to the leaders is rapidly dwindling. These guys are going to make
some noise at the worlds next year. Finally, kudos to Ian O'Leary for
having the gumption to show up for a well known heavy air event and having a
great attitude about paying your dues to move up in the fleet.

Alan Norman and Dave Guinther took some great pictures of the action. I'll
try and post them to the www.usa505.org website tonight.

Next regatta on the schedule is the ABYC Memorial Day on May 24-25. Steve
and I will be there. I figure all of you light air sissys will be there so
we should have a decent turnout. Hell, we may even have strong breeze in
which case all of you sissys will get to work on the capsize drills that you
will know oh so well at next year's worlds (if you don't start sailing the
windy regattas...). See you on the water!

-Nick

Nick Adamson
