Bill Jenkins
2008-08-28, 09:08:06

The annual One-Design Regatta at Mission Bay YC last weekend was a big
success. Ninety-three boats in an enormous number of classes
participated. Out on the ocean course where the 505s competed, the race
committee did a great job keeping things going, running 3 races on
Saturday and 3 on Sunday. A new race went off as soon as the last boat
from the previous race returned to the starting area. The starting line
was mostly pretty square, with a notable exception described in vague
terms below, though the finish line was way off the whole weekend.

Conditions did not disappoint either. A sunny first day delivered 8-10
knots and a cloudy second day saw 10-12 knots with gusts to 14 reported.

Six teams including two visitors enjoyed the fine competition. The
favored team headed by Keith Davids started strong with
a come-from-behind victory in the first race. Sadly they suffered an
impaired port jib sheet that forced them to struggle the rest of the
day. Team Phlegm filled in the gap. After letting Keith pass in the
final approach to the finish in race one, Phlegm stayed ahead of the
pack to win the next two races. The Phlegmsters achieved the spectacular
moment of the regatta at the start of the first race by port tacking the
fleet. That was followed shortly by a big shift to the right that saw
Phlegm tack to cross a hundred yards ahead of the competition. Yes, as
mentioned, this amazing beginning was squandered during the final
moments of the race.

Sunday was noticeably windier, and the chop was up as well. Keeping the
boats moving through the waves was challenging fun. Stephen Gay and
Chuck Fulmer sailed Keith Davids’ Rondar, thanks to Keith’s amazing
generosity. They seemed like a completely different team, and Steve must
be in the market for a new boat now. After winning the first start on
the pin end, they sailed a great race to stay ahead for the whole
distance and win. In Sunday’s second race, Team Phlegm managed a decent
start, rounded the weather mark in first place, and extended their lead
to win the race and secure the regatta win as well. That left Steve and
Chuck to duke it out with John Billings and Mike Jue aboard HOK (Harry’s
Old Kitty) for second place in the last race of the regatta. Steve and
Chuck won, and the rest is history.


Regards, Bill Jenkins

I forgot to metion that co-fleet captain Patrick Koranda did an
excellent job providing the beer and brats for the post race discussions
on Saturday. Good job Patrick.
