Nick Adamson
2008-08-13, 19:48:10
do 505 World List, 505-north-america@googlegroups.com, 505-usa-west-coast@googlegroups.com
i
Greetings 505 Race Fans,

The 2008 505 Pacific Coast Championship / Pre-Pre Worlds Regatta was hosted
by the St. Francis Yacht Club over the past weekend. A fleet of 27 boats
competed for the title. Racing took place on the Berkeley Circle on
Saturday and to the west of Alcatraz on Sunday.
Winds were 15-25mph on Saturday and 15-20mph on Sunday. We sailed in flood
tide on the Circle and a mixed flood/ebb on the Alcatraz course. The right
side of the course paid upwind on Saturday and the left side paid upwind on
Sunday. Staying in the strongest breeze paid on the downwind legs on both
days.

Mike Martin and Jeff Nelson continued their domination of the fleet in heavy
air by posting straight bullets for the series. It's amazing how fast these
guys go when the wind pushes in the 20's. Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn
posted consistent 2nd's and 3rd's to claim 2nd place. It was a competitive
series for 3rd place for the rest of us. Steve Bourdow and I narrowly edged
out Dalton Bergan and Fritz Lanzinger for 3rd and 4th followed by Mike Holt
and Neil Fulcher in 5th. Bruce Mahoney and Richard Clark of Team Pegasus
sailed a very competitive series but scored two DNS's on Saturday which
dropped them out of contention for a top 5 result.

The StFYC race committee gave us a taste of what to expect for the Worlds
next year. Currently, the plan is to sail on the Berkeley Circle due to
course size limitations with a large fleet gate starting on the Alcatraz
course. It was a very LOOOOOOONG sail in on Saturday with a flood tide and
the wind gusting into the high 20's. Honestly, the 2009 Worlds is going to
be a very physically challenging regatta if we race on the Circle. It will
still be physically challenging if we sail on the Alcatraz course but it
will cut a couple of hours off each race day. If we do race on the Circle,
you had better be ready for it in terms of physical fitness AND equipment
preparation. I personally would like to see a creative approach to making
the Alcatraz course work. I believe line starts and a windward-leeward
course configuration would do the trick. If the fleet is not too big we
could still use the gate start format. It will take buy in from the
International 505 Class Association because that is not the current Worlds
racing format. Changing the format to sail on the Alcatraz course would not
lessen the quality of the racing. It would result in less non-racing time
on the water for competitors, less breakdowns and the resulting reduction in
fleet size (only half the fleet finished the last race on Saturday), more
social time for enjoying San Francisco with friends and family, and better
spectating opportunities. I realize history and tradition are a big part of
the 505 Class but I feel these are minor adjustments that do not negatively
impact the racing while enhancing the experience and enjoyment of the event
by all competitors and their families. If you have an opinion on this
issue, now is the time to express it so we can come up with a plan that the
majority of the Class favors.

-Nick

Nick Adamson
