2026-08-04

Regatta Report by Craig Thompson

Regatta Summary

The 2026 505 East Coast Championships at Kingston Yacht Club wrapped up
after twenty teams from the USA and Canada sailed six races in
challenging, predominantly light-air conditions. Congratulations to Luke
Strickland and Christian Voyer (Nepean Sailing Club) on CAN 8821, who
sailed an impressively consistent series to capture their first 505 ECC
title with 13 net points. The young duo has been making huge strides,
also winning the Newport Regatta in July. They showed exceptional speed
and tactics in the light breeze—a fantastic addition to the top of the
fleet.

Ethan Bixby and Ted Huebner finished in 2nd (15 net points), followed
closely by Duane Delfosse and Mike Hull in 3rd (17 net points, winning
the tie-break) and Jeff Boyd and Danielle Boyd in 4th (17 net points).
The championship was decided in the final race between the top 4 teams
which all had a chance to win the event on the final day.

Day-by-Day Breakdown

Friday (Races 1–4): Racing opened in 5–7 knots for Races 1 and 2 before
filling in to 8–10 knots for Races 3 and 4, which saw a tricky mix of
wire-running and squared-back downwind sailing. There were plenty of
passing lanes and the best teams took advantage of them to stay
consistent while managing risks. The day concluded with a high-value
fleet debrief at the club. The information sharing to get everyone up to
speed didn't go unnoticed—the International 14 fleet, who shared the
course for the event, commented on how cool it was to see such
collaborative post-race debriefs.

Saturday (Race 5): Light and fickle conditions set in with 3–5 knots.
Race 5 proved to be a nail-biter as Duane Delfosse and Mike Hull barely
squeaked around the first weather mark just 3 seconds ahead of the
20-minute time limit. They went on to win the race convincingly. The
fleet was sent ashore under AP over H (further signals made ashore).
Although the fleet was sent back out an hour later when the breeze
seemed to build, the wind fizzled out again, ending racing for the day.
Sailors enjoyed a fantastic regatta barbecue hosted by Kingston Yacht
Club that evening.

Sunday (Race 6): Storm cells dominated the area, replacing the
forecasted East/Southeast breeze with a shifting 5–6 knot Northerly that
tended west/left. Race 6 was completed just before a torrential
downpour, prompting another AP over H signal. After a short wait ashore,
the fleet launched again under a 2:30 PM cutoff time. With a long trip
home ahead, a few teams opted to start packing up early. Those who
ventured back out faced a replay of Saturday's fading breeze, resulting
in no further races.

