The 2000 Hoover Annual Regatta

Unnnh, Wow!

This year, the Hoover regatta involved a bit of work. that's why the "unnnh"
above. I'm still a bit stiff.

Nine boats converged on our parking lot to rig in rain on Saturday morning. At
the time, it was blowing 10-15 mph out of the NNW. The nine boats included 3
locals (Alexander/Alexander, Seiple/Schaffer, and Stetson/Noble), 3 from
Chicago (Brown/Hanson, Kaiser/Badtke, and Viechnicki/Long), one from
Bloomington (Goldstein/Ginter), one from Toledo, sort of
(Terman/[Chicago]Gilly), and last but CERTAINLY not least, one from Windsor,
ONT (Gesing/Gesing). Some of you may not recognize all these names or
circumstances. Graham was stood up by a number of crews and had to resort to
hiring baby sitters so his wife could crew for him. Luckily, those baby sitters
could also supervise the highly active Andrew Gesing who had come along for the
entertainment. Seiple and Schaffer are long-time comet sailors from the other
side of town, and they have finally seen the light, crossed the tracks, and are
confirmed 5-ohers. Some of you met them at CORK last year. My new crew Tim
Noble is a guy from Nottingham, UK via Colorado who was drawn to Columbus by an
ample collection of feminine wiles (got to be ample to draw one from Colorado
to Columbus!), and was looking for something to do instead of climbing Ohio's
mountains. He had owned an old I14 in England, so sailing was the thing to do.
Brown/Hanson have been beating around in 470s in the Chicago area, but
moonlight in 505s when there is a decent regatta to attend. EVERYBODY knows
Kaiser/Badtke, who have been around for the better half of the last century and
all of this, but everybody probably knows them best for their matching outfits.
Viechnicki/Long, a.k.a Katherine and Steve, have owned an older Ballenger and
sailed a few Chicago regattas with us, but they just bought 8073, a pristine
Parker 24, and have joined the traveling set. They are pumped and poised to
climb the ladder through the fleet. Mike Goldstein has latched on to this guy
Rod Ginter, a substantial hunk of wire-meat, who had some experience on
catamarans, but has finally been escorted into Nirvana. He is now a true
5-oher. Perhaps it is useful to say that the conditions of this regatta did
something to confirm his bonding to the class.

By the time the first race commenced, the rain had stopped, but so had the
wind. It had dropped to 4-8 mph, still out of the NNW. We slid around the
course, trying to develop power and respond to 20-degree shifts. It was a good
opportunity for some to gain a few sea-legs after a long winter lay-off, in
preparation for the afternoon.

At Hoover, lunch traditionally comes after the first race, so those new-comers
to the season can rerun the crossed lines, tighten a few screws, and fix a few
things that rotted during the winter. Funny how that happens. We had no
significant repairs this year!

As we were eating our Whoppers and fries, etc., we watched the sky clear and
the wind build. The second race started in 15+ steady with gusts to 25 out of
the west. At Hoover, this means swirling wind as it moves across the trees on
the western edge of the lake, generating frequent autotacks. The gusts also
tend to be, as I like to say, square-edged. They slam you instantly when they
hit and the stop just as abruptly. If you are not watching them, your
fully-trapezed crew pulls the boat over on top of you as the boat goes from 18
planing knots or so to 6 in less than a second. Who said 505s don't have
brakes?

The races tended to follow a consistent pattern. Alexanders, Kaiser/Badtke, and
Gesings got good starts on the line starts and were away fast, unless one of
the less-experienced happened to be there too and cause some tactical
situations. Boat handling was supreme with the strong winds and puffs. There
tended to be a pack of three boats staying quite close together, with one, two,
or three not too far behind, and the others a bit further back in linear
measurement, but only one shift away in actual racing distance. Admittedly, no
one else in the world can remember race-to-race details like the venerable,
august, and honorable Alexander Meller, so I won't even try. All I know is I
was often fighting back from a bad start, tangling with everyone, catching some
good shifts, occasionally going very fast, opening bailers to clear water from
near-capsizes, making generally good decisions and spinnaker sets, and ending
up third or fourth with one exception. Graham and Carol had their boat-handling
problems early on, but got them ironed out to dominate most races. Ki and John
had ups and downs, Adam and Renka had early-season issues, as did most others.
And these were trying conditions. After two windy races Saturday, the wind got
up to 25 steady with square-edged puffs to 35, and for many, it stopped being
entirely fun.

Sunday morning dawned bright and windy, again 15, with puffs to 25. Everyone
came out a bit stiff but sober and prepared for the day. Unfortunately, for one
crew, the boat created a let-down. Brown/Hanson had gotten on the water early
to do a bit of practice in the breeze, but one puff caught them unawares. On
trying to right the boat, apparently the weight of the water in the mainsail
was too much and the mast separated into two at the hounds. The bright side: it
was a very old heavy mast with 3/16" stainless steel plates for a spreader
bracket. A new light D will make life much easier for this boat.

This regatta served its intended purpose: to provide an early-season
opportunity to check out the equipment and to get the fleet going. We are now
ready for the Midwest Championship in two weeks in Windsor.
