505 Co-Ed Championship

at the

High Sierra Regatta

July 15-16

Over the July 15-16 weekend the West Coast 505 fleets held its first
CO-ED Championship at the High Sierra Regatta run by Fresno Yacht club
on Huntington Lake. For the Co-ed regatta, the idea is to sail with your
significant other, and enjoy a weekend of sailing, camping, and the
great outdoors. This was done to promote more women sailing 505s. Little
did we know we were also providing an opportunity for alternate life
style sailors to show their stuff.
We had 7 couples show up to compete for the title.
The new/old team of Howie Hamlin, and Don Smith narrowly took the event
sailing their pink 505 appropriately named "More than just roommates".

The fleet enjoyed perfect Huntington Lake conditions of warm air and
cold water with the shifty breeze that you would expect from lake
sailing. The series starting with splendidly with Elan and Alan
mastering the fickle wind and leading at the first mark. However, Don
and Howie were able to slip by them down wind and win the first race.
Race 2 saw Stephanie and Mike take an early lead and never look back to
take the win with Elan and Alan again in 2nd and the boys in third. This
set up a 3-way tie for first going into the final race on Sunday.

A full moon was out on Saturday night, which made for romantic campfires
for all the couples. Bypassers claimed they say Howie's truck (not the
yellow one) parked in front of Don's cabin that night. Things must
have gone well because the boys in the pink boat took no prisoners
the next day leading at every mark and winning the series. Stephanie
and Mike after sailing mid fleet on the first lap passed Karina
& Dave and Elan & Alan to take 2nd in the race and regatta. Elan
& Alan wound up 3rd with Karina & Dave finishing up in 4th.

Overall the First co-ed Regatta was a big success, and we plan on
repeating the tradition next year. Hopefully Howie can pull himself
away from his gardening long enough to join back up with Don to
defend their title of fastest 505 couple in the west.

If anyone has complete results can they please post them?

Bruce Edwards
