East Coast Championship Report

August 25-27

by Rick Thompson


After six races and time for only one more, it all came down to the last
race. Three boats; Neal Fowler and Dave Dyson, Jeff Boyd and Martin
tenHove, and Tim Collins and Mike Mills, were tied with 14 points. With
a three-way tie for first, one race left, and the breeze approaching
classic Buzzard's Bay conditions, Jeff Boyd and Martin tenHove finished
second in the last race to take the Championship. Neal Fowler and Dave
Dyson finished third to fall one point behind in second and Tim Collins
and Mike Mills finished the race fifth, ending up third overall, three
points off the leaders.

The breeze was light on Friday shifting 80 degree during the second
race. Saturday, the breeze was a little better, building to around
twelve knots over the course of the day. Sunday, we saw the best breeze
of the regatta, maxing out somewhere in the middle teens. The sun was
shining and the race committee was excellent, as usual. Seven races were
run, four Worlds courses and three Olympics. Thanks to the New Bedford
Yacht Club, the race Committee; Dave and Phyllis Bidle, Carol Hill, Jane
Scott, for organizing the housing, Neal Fowler for the waterside
organization, and Tim Collins for the shoreside organization.

Thanks to our sponsors of the event: Concordia Company, for the cook out
Friday night; Guck, Inc.; Jamestown Distributors; Louis A Green, home of
the original Kivney Strap; North Sails; USA8013 for the keg at the cook
out; and Witchcraft.

Notable regatta events:

* The container from the west coast showed up right at 9am Friday
 morning, with all 10 boats intact! Thanks go out to Tom Kivney for
 organizing the final push from Chicago to New Bedford. Without Tom's
 help the boats would have arrived Monday!

* In the first race, Tim Collins and Mike Mills showed how you can still
 go left when you're the rabbit. Just round the committee boat 1:30
 after the gate is supposed to open. That way you only have to sail on
 port for 30 seconds.

* Colin Merrick and Tal Ingram, in their first 5o5 race ever, gated
 early, tacked, and crossed the fleet. Way to go boys!

* Hal Jordan & Jeff Wren drive down for the event from New
 Hampshire/Maine with Parker 3977 which has been extensively restored;
 the boat looks great!

* Jeff Boyd said the best part of winning the event is that he doesn't
 have to tell Florence (his wife) that they were second, again!

* In the final race, Tom Kivney and Adam Schell were coming into the
 leeward mark at the end of the run when Adam unhooked to come in for
 the douse. He managed to miss the boat on the way in, parting company
 with the rest of the 8194 program. Realizing he was missing a key
 component, Tom tried to respond, but the thought of beating his crew
 around the leeward mark for the first time in 35 years of 505 racing
 was too tempting. Kivney was doing a great job of single handed
 sailing and getting the pole and kite down, when the kite filled at an
 inopportune moment, and Kivney bought it. Meanwhile, Adam was some
 distance back upwind, swimming after the boat. Macy Nelson and Mike
 Welch and Ali Meller and Fiona Lockwood, who had rounded ahead of
 Kivney/Schell saw what had happened. Nelson/Welch had already started
 upwind and were closer to Adam, and immediately tacked over and picked
 him up, and delivered him back to 8194 (now on its side) and Tom (now
 on the centerboard). Macy/Mike then hardened up and got back to their
 race, without losing a boat, though losing considerable distance.

* The first Witchcraft -- 8737 -- raced the event; the boat looked great.

