http://www.int505.org/usa/events/200010PlaningBoatREP.htm

Planing Boat Regatta
October 21-22, 2000
San Diego, CA
by Dan Merino

DAY 1

Seven 505's ventured out into stormy conditions to race in Fleet 3's Planing
Boat regatta on Saturday. Wind predictions of 15-25 knots had most skippers and
crew sporting wetsuits. This years event featured a common start for 505's and
FD's for the dreaded "Dolly Parton Chute". Two classics dropped out early due
to equipment failures on the way out to the course. Wind started in the 12 knot
range until minutes before the start of race 1 when it dropped to 8 and shifted
so far left that it was a single beat to the weather mark. Two FD's led around
the weather mark followed by Team Weasel with guest skipper Charlie Jenkins
driving and Gary and Gina Scott in USA 7458. Wind oscillated between 8-12 knots
for much of the race while Team Weasel squeaked out their first victory.

Race two the wind gradually built to the 15-18 knot range. Once again Team
Weasel led around the course until the final leg when tragedy struck when the
tiller extension came off the tiller causing a violent flip. Gary and Gina with
their new/used Kevlar sails easily sailed by to take the win. Team Bob on the
other hand went sailing into oblivion allowing Team Weasel to salvage a second
place finish. Meanwhile Team Mental Floss (AKA White trash) was having problems
of their own when in the growing wind and chop could not right their boat. Team
Sneaky Pete on the other hand aware that the wind was building headed back to
the club knowing that by finishing the previous two races put them in a secure
lead in the classic division.

Race three was started in 18+ knots of breeze for those that chose to stay out.
Once again Team Weasel found themselves in hot pursuit of the only remaining FD
(the other capsized after the start) with Gary and Gina and Team Bob close by.
After rounding the weather mark we were able to blow by the FD and stretch our
lead out. Little did we know that the race committee had abandoned the race and
were trying to catch up to us to tell us. Mental Floss had taken on water and
was beginning to sink consuming the RC resources. The boat was subsequently
towed into shore and was back on the line for the next day of racing.

DAY 2

The weathermen goofed big time again as once again the prediction was for 15-25
knots but never materialized to more than 10 knots. Race three started in 8
knots which held constant for most of the race. Team Weasel with regular driver
Bill Jenkins got pinned by two FD's on the left side while the rest of the
fleet went right. After ducking one of the FD's we put our light air technique
to work and slowly worked our way to the front of the pack passing both of the
FD's in the process to take the win. Meanwhile in the classic fleet Team Taz
fought their way around the course keeping Team School bus at bay. "Bus" on the
other hand showed good speed around the course after some major retrofits such
as its new carbon fiber stern and Waterat like rear thwart. "Bus" may be the
only cored 5300 series Parker in existence. Owner Bob Woodcock has truly done
some amazing thing with this boat in a very short time. Race 4 was very much a
copy of race three as the wind held in about the 10 knot range. Team Weasel
took the win followed by USA 7458 and Team Bob.

The dreaded Dolly Parton Chute was awarded to FD fleet captain Doug Dommermuth
for hosting a regatta and only managing to get two boats on the line each day
(I think they call that match racing).


