Richmond Spring Invite

April 29-30

By Mike Martin

Once again the 505s (except for Jeff Miller) returned for another great weekend
of sailing at Richmond YC. The trusty San Francisco Bay delivered good breeze
of 15 to 18 knots for all 5 races. On Saturday we sailed out in light air, but
by the starting gun the wind was solid. Race 1 saw Dave Shelton & Bruce Edwards
lead from the start, and take the win with ease. The rest of the day belonged
to Steve Bourdow & Mike Martin who had the wheels up wind and took races 2 and
3. After the racing there was a short tuning session, and later, once back in
the bar, a race debriefing where the leaders reviewed their set ups, and
answered questions from fellow competitors. Sunday's weather was a carbon copy
of Saturdays. Alan Norman & Nick Adamson were on fire upwind, and lead at the
first mark. However a quick set gave the lead to Don Smith who came in to
finish off the regatta with Mike Martin. At the leeward mark Peter Alarie &
Howard Hamlin used there blazing downwind speed and lightning quick jybes to
take the lead. At the next weather mark Dave and Bruce Lead, but at the finish
it was Peter & Howie who took the win. Don & Mike managed to pull off a 2nd
place finish, to seal up the regatta with 1 race to go. This left Dave & Bruce
and Peter & Howie tied for second going into the last race. The final race was
again a tight battle that again had had multiple leaders, with a repeat at the
first mark Alan and Nick Leading, this time Dave & Bruce lead at the Jybe mark,
Pete and Howie at the Leeward Mark, Don and Mike at the weather mark, But again
showing the down wind speed, Peter & Howie were able to take the lead by the
leeward mark, and keep it until the finish line, giving them second overall for
the regatta.

As always Richmond YC did a great job hosting the event and everyone had a
great time (except for Jeff Miller who did not show up) But who did show up was
the legendary John Andron who sailed with Robin Brown came all the way from
Canada for the event.



