SSA Spring II May 13-14 Despite this being a low-key multi-class event, 505s
had a surprisingly good turnout of 12 boats, second (by only one boat) to the
J24s. This is counting the Bretons who we saw sailing around on Saturday, but
who did not start a race (see Not So Lame Excuses for what happened to Dylan).
The Solings (Saturday only) and Johnson 18s were racing as well.  All six SSA
505s raced, though the Liebermans raced Saturday-only due to Josh having
another commitment Sunday, leaving his Dad Steve crewing for Ali on Sunday.
Sriram Jambunathan and Mark Surber only raced 8263 on Sunday, due to Mark
closing on a home Saturday. Five WRSC teams raced (though only Rene de la
Rie/Allan Freedman raced both days). Ryan Cox (racing with Dave Johnson) is
currently living in Virginia Beach, but raced for his home Ventura Yacht Club.

Three of the five WRSC teams decided to sail over to the race course Saturday
morning and missed the start of the first race, while Rene/Allan and Macy
Nelson/Nick Nelson trailered over and easily made the start. It appears that
sailing over works really well in breeze (as little as one hour), and not very
well in light air (hey guys, if you had waited until Sunday after racing, you
might have made it back to WRSC in about 45 minutes!).

There is lots of interest in 505s, with one of the indications being the number
of new faces out racing with us, and another the number of people stopping to
chat about 505s while we are in the dinghy park.

After two TESODs with Jesse, Walter Reiter was back for more; he raced with
Barney Harris on Saturday. Dave Johnson teamed up with Ryan and made it look
like they had been a team for years, as they dominated the regatta (Ryan
finally got to sail a light air regatta without big Carl Smit in the front of
the boat). Laser sailor Mike Albert has teamed up with John Hauser, and after a
couple of TESODs these guys are starting to look really good together. After
doing TESOD last week, SSA Laser racer Sriram Jambunathan and Mark Surber were
back for more 505 racing. Mark could only race Sunday; they were having a great
time, and we look forward to seeing them back. Yes, Sriram, 505 8263 is a FAST
boat, but you are not supposed to beat the guy you borrowed the boat from!

I was scrambling for a crew (Pascal had to bail due a work problem) and lucked
in to meeting Ozzie Rodriguez. Ozzie has wanted to get into sailboat racing,
and wandered down to SSA on Friday afternoon. He met Michael Higgins and Dustin
Romey there, and was encouraged by them to show up Saturday and see if he could
get a crewing job. Dustin hooked him up with me Saturday morning. Ozzie had
been on a sailboat only a few times before and had never raced. He did great!
and plans to call J World on Monday to sign up for classes, and then show up
for TESOD on Tuesday.  Ozzie, I have your 3rd place trophy. Thanks!

Rich Barry almost made it out on a 505 (we were going to take him out after
racing), but was recruited by a J24 instead, and strained his back a little and
begged off 505 sailing; we expect to see him at SSA for the next TESOD. Jay
from Spinsheet raced a Soling Saturday and was impressed enough by the 505s to
ask about getting a ride (see you on Tuesday, Jay). Speaking of TESOD, we have
Jay, Rich, Ozzie, Geoff Ewenson, Brazilian Star skipper Manuel, Sriram and Mark
all interested in racing. Rich and Ruth Straebel (friends of 505world list
administrator Chad Price, and just moved here from Nebraska) have joined SSA
with their Snipe. Rich is also interested in getting out in a 505.

It was light and hot Saturday, while Sunday had more breeze, but was up and
down and very shifty at times.

Ryan/Dave led after the three Saturday races with a 1,1,3, while Rene/Allan had
the other bullet and were comfortably in 2nd. John/Mike and Ali/Ozzie were tied
for 3rd. We asked the RC to start the 505s last in the first race in order to
give the WRSC contingent a little more time to get to the race course (it
wasn't enough, though). The RC then stayed with this starting order, perhaps --
I'm guessing -- since starting the fastest class last meant the least waiting
for the next race. Even though we were sailing in what is close to our weakest
conditions (light air, non planing), the 505s were sailing through many of the
classes/boats starting earlier, in several of the races. This made for some
interesting moments at mark roundings, with perhaps the most interesting being
a pack of four or five 505s pinching higher and higher on starboard trying to
get around the windward mark against the current (and being nearly stopped),
while a ballsy Soling helmed by Joe VanGieson made it through the pack on port,
while saying, "we're invisible." A great move by Joe, but the 505s all beat him
around the mark, anyway.

After everyone had their fill of free beer, the survivors went to The Clipper
for dinner.

Several teams did not race Sunday, possibly due to Mother's Day commitments
made in weak moments.

Sunday had planing upwind conditions at times, particularly in the first race.
Meller/Lieberman led the drag race to the left, got the big knock, and tacked
thinking they were winning the race big time, only to discover they had
overstood BIGTIME! OUCH! Ryan/Dave sailed really well despite Dave being a
little light on the wire, to take the win.

Having seen to it that Laura had their 3rd child OK, Jesse Falsone decided he
needed to go 505 sailing, left Laura at the hospital, and arrived at SSA just
as the fleet returned after the final race on Sunday. The breeze was filling
in, and Jesse and I went for a fabulous sail... in what seemed like about two
hours total we blasted down the bay at warp nine with the kite up then doused
and two sail reached past Thomas Point, past the mouth of the South river to
the mouth of the West River, where the Stars were finishing the first race of
their Worlds. We then tacked back, hoisted the kite for awhile, and then two
sail reached and beat back to SSA, leaving the Stars well astern in our wake.
Thomas Point recorded puffs to 20 knots.

After more free beer, the boats were packed up until Tuesday evening.

Wait a minute! I nearly forgot the results!

Dave Johnson/Ryan Cox	8631	1 Rene de la Rie/Allan Freedman	8085	2 Ali
Meller/Ozzie Rodriguez/Steve Lieberman	8734	3 John Hauser/Mike Albert
7346	4 Sorry, I did not get a copy of the results (I was out blasting around
with Jesse instead of going to prize presentation). Complete results should be
posted on the SSA web site (http://www.clark.net/pub/ssa/ See Regatta Calendar)
shortly.

Thanks to Robert Daniel and his RC for running 6 races for us in challenging
conditions.

Lame Excuses: 6987 Lauren Abramson - So used to refinishing the boat each time
she sails it, that she unrigged the boat after the Florida Midwinters and
prepared it for yet more work EVEN THOUGH IT IS THE BEST LOOKING 505 ANY OF
HAVE EVER SEEN AND IT DOES NOT NEED ANY MORE WORK (it just needs to be raced
more).  7148 Peter Mignerey - nursing a sore shoulder (an injury incurred while
playing his violin -- dangerous things, those). We hope to see him back on the
race course, shortly.

8012 Henry Amthor/Douglas Amthor - Were unable to obtain kitchen passes from
Barb and Sarah.

8015 Monty Schumpert - Attempting to become a major landowner on the outer
banks, caring for the estate.

8018 Ethan Bixby - Family visiting (a commitment made in a weak moment?).

8265 Jim Tuten - Settling in in the Carolinas, but has not figured out how to
get on I-95 north yet.

8627 Tim Collins/Bill Smith - Bill broke his forearm snowboarding into a tree.
Bill, try leading with your chin next time!

8645 Fred Liesegang/Dave Anderson - could not face NYC traffic, will probably
never go west of the Long Island airports again.

8737 Tom Hurwitch/Geoff Hurwitch - Took time out from rigging the first
Witchcraft 505 out of the mold to photograph the boat, and were unable to
complete rigging the new boat as a result.

Chris Harvey - AWOL, out of the country?

8315 Nicholas Place - Possibly a figment of our imagination. It has been SOOO
LOONNNG since we saw Nicholas, we're starting to wonder if we imagined him and
Parker 25 8315...

Fiona Lockwood - decided that working for a living was highly overrated, and
was -- at last report -- scrambling around New Zealand's South Island. However,
horrible rumours of her being nearly out of money and being forced to work for
a living (at a US sailmaker) continue to circulate.

7199 Sterg Papadakis - On a Lauren Abramson-style I'm too busy working on the
boat to sail, program.

7068 JB and Ted Ferrarone - JB is rumored to be taking his upcoming exams too
seriously, while Ted was busy selling their other 505 to a new prospect.

Not So Lame Excuses: 6985 Matt Breton/Dylan Breton - Dylan and Matt sailed all
the way over to the race course and then sailed in without racing as Dylan was
not feeling well. Dylan suffered from an allergic reaction to a prescription
drug, and spent all Sunday at a hospital emergency room. Mike reports he is OK,
now, but it did wipe out the weekend for them.  Ali
