Hi-Per 2000/California 505 Championship By John Fracisco I had a great time
racing my boat (6992). This was my first real 505 regatta with the boat (the
two previous one day events don't count), and I'm so happy that I have this
boat. I learned a lot from my driver, Bailey White, who also owns a Hamlin
launcher boat that lives in the S.F. Bay Area. I not only learned some stuff
like how to three sail reach and how to get a boat back up quickly when you
capsize, and that you need to hit the hiking strap or thwart when you are
trying to roll the boat flat on a reach, but things about setting up the rig
and little things that are peculiar to Hamlin boats (drain plugs for the tanks?
really?). I hate to say it, my highlights were little things that happened on
the racecourse, like crossing Howie or Mike upwind (first beat), and passing
boats downwind occasionally, oh, and some of the reaches were fun (if tame for
the experienced 505'ers). My 20 year old boat can hang pretty well (Howie, you
built a great boat). I had a little bit of tiller time on the sail back in on
Sunday, and the boat steers like a dream.

I can give my take of what happened, but hopefully the leaders can give a
better blow by blow about what happened "up there".

Saturday morning we sailed out to find left over lumpy seas from two days of
onshore winds. We had about 12-14 knots out of an atypical direction for Marina
del Rey for the first race...very puffy, on a single windward leeward course.
The second race was a double windward leeward in about 10-12 knots of breeze.
The wind pressure decreased throughout the day and the fourth race got off in
about 6-7 knots of breeze, petering out to under 5 knots for the run to the
finish. The third and fourth races were triangle/windward/downwind finish.
There was a lot of marginal trapezing conditions as the day wore on. There were
some strange wave angles relative to the breeze direction, so the port reaches
were not as tight, but had better wave/surfing conditions. The R/C got 4 races
in before a long, slow sail back to the dock.

I knew Sunday was going to present less breeze when I was driving in along the
beach. Fortunately the ocean was smooth (it takes about 8 hours for the ocean
to go from big lump to billiard table smooth again). The first race got
underway in about 8-10 knots of breeze. Puffy and streaky. Lighter teams were
able to trap, heavier teams were hiking or "mini-trapping" off the trunk. Again
the wind pressure dropped through the day, with some bigger shifts (~10-15
degrees) with the lighter wind. There was a general recall at the start of the
2nd race, and quite a few teams did not how the general recall is administered
"normally" (since a lot of times SI's call for rolling starts in the case of a
general recall). A few teams knew the rules, and a lot of the fleet had to
spinnaker sail back around the pin ends of the line to start the race. Ed. I'm
laughing about this one; as often as not the 505ers are having such a good time
they don't notice or ignore the general recall, and the RC has to catch them at
the end of the first triangle. The R/C got three races in, and got everybody
back to the dock by about 3pm. At least it was warm, and the courses were not
too long. Roll tacks were the call for most of the day, and I saw Andy B. and
Graham S. throwing in a series of roll tacks that looked like something you'd
see on a collegiate course in FJ's.

Just about everybody was using Ullman Sails (from various recent generations,
Kevlar/mylar as well as dacron...Andy B. had a relatively new dacron main up)
and the smaller Ullman kite. CYC had beer in the dinghy park after sailing both
days, had a pasta dinner Saturday, and served trays of delicious greasy snack
foods and chili on Sunday (woe to the people driving back to S.F. that had a
couple bowls of chili). It's raining and ugly today in L.A., so I'll take
sunshine and lighter winds instead of rain and thunderstorms anyday.

There's an event at Richmond YC at the end of April, the Memorial Day regatta
at ABYC (Long Beach), and then an event the first weekend of June down at MBYC
(San Diego). And the Long Beach teams are out practicing after work Tuesdays,
and I've heard that they sail a lot of other days during the week, too.

Big thanks go out to David Collins for keeping this event alive at CYC, and for
the teams that showed up from out of the area.

Who's got the excuses?

John Fracisco 6992

Another Report By Andy Beeckman Would it be CalYC if it blew over 12 knots? I
don't think so. And so the story goes when a solid showing of 505ers descended
upon Marina Del Ray to sail the High Performance Dinghy regatta at CalYC. By
the way, why were the Snipes there?

Anyway, the first day looked promising for some real good breeze but it never
materialized and we had 4 good races in 8-12 knots. As always CYC set up great
racing with small courses to keep it tight. The first race the pin and left
side was favored heavily and Andy won the start and the race. As the day went
on the wind was progressively shiftier; it was clutch to know what phase the
wind was in prior to the start. There were tight-as-you-can-get finishes on
more than one race and this continued throughout the regatta. The wind died off
a bit in the afternoon which provided a skippers nightmare going downwind; 3-5
knots & sloppy chop. Sitting to leeward with the main flapping profusely, can't
really see where your going, feels like your not moving, and your crew telling
you to head down with pressure is enough to make anybody's head spin! When we
did hit the dock the pain of that downwind was nullified by free beer and tasty
food. The smack-talking session wasn't quite there as we didn't have our hired
gun, Danny Thompson, to compete with our Canadian friends. The young bucks in
general took the brunt of the smack talked whether they were present or not,
where are you Mr. Thompson??? The second day was slightly overcast and looked
to be light. With light and lumpy conditions anything can happen. When 7771
took a 5th in the first race, it was shaping up to be a close battle for the
top 5. This day proved that no-one had Mother Natures number and out of three
races, 3 different boats won a race. There was a lot of jockeying of positions
as the racing was still tight, especially on the second start of the day when a
majority of the fleet started at the 3 minute gun, only the lucky few (or those
who knew what was going on) went back in time to catch the real start and
proceeded to jump out to a huge lead. The last race was another tight one as
the wind was dying. I want to thank the Northern Cal boats that made the trip
and the regatta, for the matter. I'd also like to thank CYC for hosting another
fantastic Hi-Per.


Andy Beeckman

Snipe Hunting in So California
		

By Dan Strellis Thanks SoCal guys for hosting a great regatta. My moment of the
weekend came in the last race of the series. I'm the first boat on the
starboard layline about 20 BL from the windward mark on the W,L course. A Snipe
is about 4 BL from the mark on the starboard layline as well. One of the 5o5
leebows the Snipe to take an inside position at the mark, then another does the
same. By this time the Snipe's skipper was yelling something I couldn't hear
from my position, but it didn't sound nice---probably something about lack of
wind, or why he isn't in a 5o5. 3 or 4 more 5o5s proceed to tack inside or
nearby the Snipe. By the time I get to the mark, the Snipe skipper is
frantically waving his tiller in an attempt to avoid hitting the mark he was
about to round 1 minute earlier. Nice leebows guys! Who of you were in on that?

Dan USA 7886
