Winter Contest Regatta results
Created: Tuesday, 16 February 2010 11:29
Written by Marco Giraldi

Winter Contest Regatta Results (Genoa Italy 7&14 Feb.2010)

For the first time in the history of this winter classic regatta, the
505 Class has been invited to participate to this event organized by
Yacht Club Italiano (the most important Club in Italy).

189 boats were racing on the waters in front of Genoa representing
    Optimist, 420, 470, Laser and 505.

The regatta was held over 2 consecutive Sundays, to facilitate
travelling of the participants to the regatta and avoid consuming
precious vacation time. Obviously we lefts the boats at the Club for the
entire period.

The Italian fleet decided to train on the Saturday, before the regatta,
so on Friday the 5th of Feb, I left Milan and drove to Genoa in the
middle of a snow storm, I thought that I was totally insane to go racing
in the middle of this crazy winter, but on Saturday the sunny skies, the
warm temperature and light wind from the south made such trip
worthwhile. Sunday 7th , the regatta started under even better weather,
the wind was blowing well above 15knots from the north, to switch from
the East 8-10 knots in the afternoon. We completed 3 races all under
trapeze conditions. Ciferri/Natali dominated the 505 with 3 bullets
followed by Loce/Binachi and Manzi/Annese.

The following weekend we met again on Saturday for training, many
participants from the other classes were doing the same. The temperature
was around 10° under overcast skies. The wind from the south was
excellent, well above 15knots probably closer to 20knots, the wave were
big (for me fresh water sailor) and we had a great 2 hours section.
Sunday, the day of the regatta, the weather changed for the worst. It
snowed on the hills and on the mountains surrounding Genoa, the air
cooled down around 3-4°, the wind was blasting from the North at over 20
knots, the wavy sea from the day before was flattened. 3 races took
place dominated once again by Ciferri/Natali who won the event in front
of Loce/Binachi and in front of me who had to borrow a crew from the
local Club**. Many teams went for a swim thanks to the strong gusty
winds, but the water temperature of the Med sea does not cool down much,
so it was much more comfortable than swimming in Lake Garda…

Excellent the Club organization on land and on the water, the starts
between races were given without unnecessary delays, which was very
appreciated on the last cold day of racing.

In conclusion this was a well run worthwhile event, a great opportunity
to race and train in the middle of winter at a Club that has great
facilities.

This has been a great opportunity to promote the 505 Class in Italy
showing the boat to prospective future 505 sailors. Local tv broadcasted
the event, and newspaper wrote articles about the regatta. All 4 Italian
racing 505s were present, (since the Palermo Wc we lost the 2 Sicilian
boats).

We have been invited to come back next year and it will be very nice if
our neighbours will join us next time to show the locals, that the 505
is alive and a real international class.

Marco Giraldi

Resp Int505Italia

(**thanks to the double pole system I was able to race with a crew, that
had not been on dinghy in 4 years, without ever blowing a jibe in such
strong winds…)

