Racing 505 Number 38
At the 505 Retro -- Caneton 505 Regatta
at the Cercle de la Voile de Paris
September 14-15, 2002
Updated 27 September, 2002

Article by Alexander Meller, President, International 505 Class Yacht
Racing Association

Tom Bojland, International 505 Class Vice President, and I were both
invited to participate in the 505 Retro -- Caneton 505 Regatta, at the
Cercle de la Voile de Paris (CVP), so we would also be there for the
surprise 80th birthday party for Marcel Buffet. Retro 505s (I believe
the definition is anything built partly of wood and includes the
Galletti 505s built until the early 1980s) were invited to participate,
along with some early fiberglass boats. Two new Duvoisin 505s raced for
fun as well, though one of these raced Sunday only.

Several of the boats were racing with original sails, with the jib
sheeted to the rail. The owners of the retro 505s appear to differ on
whether the control systems are supposed to be as original, or improved.
Some of the boats appeared to be near original, while others had much
improved working control systems. I would expect that the original
owners would have been seeking to improve control systems while they
raced the boats, so it would be hard to know exactly what the "original"
layout would have been.

The CVP is on the Seine, downstream and west of Paris. The club is
opposite a long high heavily forested island, with the odd chateau or
house roof poking through the tree tops. Another larger yacht club is
adjacent to the CVP, just upstream of it.

It is a beautiful part of the world.

There is frequent barge and other commercial traffic on this part of the
Seine, and the river is narrow enough that most of the width is taken up
by the starting line; the marks need to be near the banks to avoid being
in the way of the commercial traffic. The other club was running a large
multi-class event on the same body of water, with their start/finish
line slightly upstream of the CVP's, and their windward and leeward
marks similarly slightly upstream of the CVP's. Early in the first beat
of each race, the 505s had to thread their way through the other club's
starting line area, with current and antique Stars, Solings, Finns,
a Snipe, several local keelboat classes and an ancient Flying Dutchman
either milling around waiting for a start, or racing on the same body of
water we were.

505 Number 38

Tom and I raced 505 38, built in 1955, which had seat tanks and interior
built by Chippendale in England on a Fairey Marine hull shell. Though
the boat is now in France, it was originally a UK 505 and still has
a mainsail numbered "K 38". This boat had the
two-flat-planes-with-radius style seat tanks, and the original wooden
mast had been replaced by a late ‘50s gold anodized Proctor E section
with swinging spreaders. I suspect the original wooden mast broke very
early on in the boat's racing career and was replaced with the E. The
main and jib halyards were on a double winch mechanism attached to the
mast near the base. Rather than deal with 48 year old sails (there was
no old spinnaker and the main had a torn batten pocket), we used a good
North Kevlar jib, a good North 5 meter AP spinnaker and a good flat
Sobstad Mylar mainsail, from Jean-Baptiste Dupont's used sail
collection. Kevlar goes very well with the wood on the boat.

The boat has not had a restoration, but did have some holes in the hull
(punched through by a trailer) repaired. Apparently the boat spent years
in a garage, so it was dry and did not rot.

Tom and I raked the mast aft as far as the turnbuckles on the shrouds
would allow, and extended the forestay below the turnbuckle with a piece
of line. I believe we were close to the light air rake setting used on
modern 505s. Since the spreaders simply pivoted on the single bolt
attaching them to the spreader bracket, it was not possible to adjust
spreader angle. The existence of a forestay made using a stuff-luff jib
easy. We used the jib halyard and winch just like the jib cloth
tensioner on the stuff-luff system, and tensioned the turnbuckle on the
forestay to tighten the rig (the rig went slack in any puff as various
things were bending). We tied on some ratchet blocks and installed some
cleats on the main thwart for the spinnaker sheets. We also tied on
a floating block on each side to move the sheet lead inboard and forward
to what we thought was correct for the North jib. The early 505s sheeted
the jib outboard of the shrouds, to the rail.

The mainsheet system is the old UK system of a mainsheet tail coming
forward from the transom, over the tiller. In conjunction with a short
tiller, and a short tiller extension with a single bolt for a pivot
rather than a universal joint, this means that the skipper sat too far
aft most of the time. To get the main to go nearly out to the shroud on
the run, one had to let go the mainsheet so it ran all the way to the
stopper knot on the end, which would now be at the transom. With far
fewer fittings and lines, and perhaps the tanks being further apart than
in modern 505s, the boat felt quite roomy.

It is not clear how the lower end of the trapeze system is supposed to
work. We ran some shockcord through the nicopressed eye at the bottom of
each shrould, and around the front of the mast. This meant the trapeze
hook would wrap around the shroud, but Tom seemed to be able to get it
untwisted so he could get on the wire when he needed to.

The wooden spinnaker pole is stored in the bottom of the boat, under the
main thwart. There was no sign of a topping lift for the spinnaker pole
(though the pole had two cleats on it), so Tom and I tied a line around
the spreader bracket to support the pole and added a thin shockcord
downhaul. With the additional rake, freely swinging spreaders and the
Proctor E section in a mast gate intended to solidly support
a square-sectioned (below the gooseneck) mast, the mast was bending
considerably in the puffs, so on Sunday morning we added some blocks in
the mast gate to better limit mast bend. The boat had an old-style Laser
vang, which was easy enough to adjust in the puffs and lulls.

There were several rudders with the boat – I suspect experimentation
with rudder and perhaps centerboard shapes started very early – two of
which were mounted in rudder heads and had tillers that fit them. Our
choice came down to the only blade already fitted in a rudder head, that
had a tiller that came with a tiller extension. The blades had thin
metal strips nailed on to the leading and trailing edges.

The boat leaked badly, but there was enough pressure during the first
two races on Saturday -- we planed briefly -- that the old style tube
bailers would bail the boat out downwind, but on Sunday we had to return
to the dock and bail the boat out between races. We had great fun when
Jean-Baptiste asked where the water was coming from, and Tom replied,
"The Seine!"

The aft mainsheet system meant the skipper had to tack facing aft.
I have no idea how Tom was tacking his end of the boat, but he did
a great job! After racing 38, I have to say that the early 505 sailors
were much better sailors than I am. I could barely cope with the
rigging, and these 505s must have been an incredible challenge to sail
in strong breeze.

Ignoring the boat handling challenges, the boat felt very good going
upwind. The panel stiffness in the hull was good, though something was
bending somewhere as the leeward shroud was very slack in the puffs, no
matter how hard we tightened the turnbuckle on the forestay! Rudders
have improved a lot since 1955, with the rudder we were using the helm
would build up rapidly as the boat heeled. While I suspect the boat
would weigh in heavy due to some repairs, it did not feel particularly
heavy in the water until the inside water level got too high. I suspect
the hull shape would be more-or-less down the middle of the tolerences,
rather than narrow at the waterline and wide above the waterline as
modern 505s are. Of course the differences would be less than 10mm. This
boat would probably not have any of the other hull shape tweaks
currently in use, either. Perhaps due to this hull shape, and perhaps
due to the weight, the boat did not feel quite as lively or twitchy as
a modern 505, though modern 505s from different builders feel very
different from each other too.

Downwind, the absence of a long luff spinnaker was very noticeable, even
in the lighter air. I've grown accustomed to the six meter luff
spinnaker, and the North AP, which was a reasonably large kite not so
long ago, looked very small. It looked even smaller when we were near
the two Duvoisins and the Galletti on the runs (they had Long Luff
Spinnakers). Our primitive spinnaker pole uphaul-downhaul system did not
always keep the spinnaker pole from lifting in the puffs. I have always
thought that this was a big loss of speed.

The boat was very maneuverable, just like a modern 505. On a couple of
occasions we had to turn hard to make it through a small gap in a wall
of boats coming at us; the boat responded very well each time. As we got
used to the rigging and control systems, Tom and I were trying to roll
tack upwind, with some success.

Though not the equal of a new 505, 38 was faster than any of the other
myriad classes that were racing in the other club's event.

Just for fun, here is the procedure for rounding the weather mark and
hoisting and flying the spinnaker:

We tried to stay near the right bank (looking upstream) of the Seine, as
the breeze was coming partly down the river and partly across the left
bank, so there was more consistent pressure in the middle and close to
the right bank, and there was current relief close to the right bank.
The right bank was also flatter and had fewer trees blocking the wind.
The windward mark was just off the left bank. We would overstand the
weather mark as we needed some reserve to deal with current, lulls and
shifts as we crossed the river. When sufficiently overstood, we would
tack to starboard and continue to point high until we were sure we could
lay the mark (we had to tack twice at the mark once and lost significant
distance). Tom called for gybe sets each time so that we would quickly
get away from the lulls on the left bank, cross the center of the river
where the current was most favourable for going downwind, and end up
part way to the far bank where the breeze was normally stronger. This
meant a slow bear away while easing the main and then a gybe without
mainsheet in hand (mainsheet already dropped so boom would go all the
way out), while facing aft. I would pull the board up while Tom hoisted
the spinnaker (the halyard emerges from the mast below the gooseneck,
through a Bakelite fitting in the sailtrack and is cleated above that
point on a small cleat on the side of the mast. While Tom hoisted,
I would retrieve the spinnaker pole (I frequently forgot and Tom had to
remind me) and pass it to Tom. Tom would insert the guy in the hook
(some things are VERY similar!) on the end of the spinnaker pole, push
that end forward, then hook the topping lift and downhaul to one of the
cleats in the middle of the pole, then push the pole the rest of the way
out and hook it on the mast. We had figured out a way to cleat the
twings on the mast (no twing cleats on the boat, no guy hooks, and the
mast had two extra cleats just below deck level) and would then set
those up, and then Tom would sit down to windward to fly the kite and
I would sit to leeward.  This took awhile.


505 Number 8 with original mainsail. The main is a little tired, but the
boat is ready to race! 38 heads for the dock and some bailing as the
second place boat sails.

In the light to medium air on the Seine, with lots of lulls, puffs and
shifts, and lots of traffic with the other 505s and the other club
holding their regatta on the same body of water, the boat felt great and
was fast! We had excellent starts in three of the five races, and were
able to work up to the leaders in the other two. Tom got out on the wire
in the puffs, a few boats of various classes -- including a 505 --
capsized, and a great time was had by all.

I’ll spare you the tack-by-tack, blow-by-blow description of each race,
though I am tempted, they were great fun.

We beat the early 1980s Galletti in all but one race, losing them on the
finish line in race three, beat one of the Duvoisins in all but one race
(we re-passed them just before the finish line by staying inshore of
them in race five, but they were well ahead in race four), and were
beaten twice in two races (races four and five) by the other Duvoisin,
though we led it at the weather mark in race five. Both Duvoisins were
newer than 8700 boats and had long luff spinnakers fitted. M. Marcel
Buffet was steering 505 number 8, the oldest remaining 505 known. He was
starting and sailing very well, but was handicapped by the original blue
mainsail, the owner's insistence that they not fly the spinnaker, and by
the gooseneck coming off the mast when some screws pulled out, causing
number 8 to miss two races. We beat all the other “retro” 505s in every
race. I believe the modern sails, somewhat modern rig tune and inboard
jib sheeting made 38 quite a bit faster, and higher pointing, than it
would otherwise have been. On the other hand, it would have been faster
still with more modern control systems, modern foils, and less water in
the boat and bow tank.

Given my predilection for making each and every 505 I get my hands on
"be all that it can be", I found myself wondering what 38 would be like
if it was refinished with epoxy, had modern blades, modern control
systems, a long luff spinnaker, and perhaps a little structure added to
allow it to carry rig tension. I was quite tempted, but the boat is now
owned by Jean-Baptiste Dupont, the French 505 class president, and he
plans to keep the boat as is, stored indoors, and bring it out once in
awhile to contest retro 505 events. Just as well, I spend far too much
time on 505 projects as it is.

As most of you know, I love 505s. It was a great privilege to race 505
number 38, a boat from the dawn of the 505 class, against other similar
retro 505s. I loved the boat, and Tom and I very much enjoyed racing it.
It was particularly appropriate that this event was held at the Cercle
de Voile de Paris, the club where the 505 class started, on the same
body of water that the 505s first raced on. I am grateful to
Jean-Baptiste Dupont, Marcel Buffet and to the French 505 Association
for inviting Tom and I to participate and for loaning us Jean-Baptiste’s
gorgeous 505.

Alexander A. Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association


No, it is not really number 1. This is a very early home build that was
never registered and measured.

