Spring Dinghy, report from the back half
Aaron Ross
2016-03-22

A regatta report from the back half of the fleet, by Bellingham 505
Fleet 35 spark plug Erik Coburn. We sailed together in college, many
pounds ago.  Jeff and Pat promised a winner's report soon.

Aaron


Here was my view from the latter half of the fleet:

It was a GREAT TIME!  My first Spring Dinghy and I hadn't sailed at St.
Francis since college too many years ago.  Aaron Ross needed a crew
because his regular guy Rob Waterman had some foot surgery to deal with.
Since my weight loss program hasn't been working so well lately,
weighing in at 180 just barely qualified me for the Crew's Union for the
weekend.  I have crewed for Aaron once before but he reminded me it was
14 years ago at the NAs in Long Beach.  It was great sailing with Aaron.
We both bought 505s right out of college and it was fun sharing some
wild rides and good laughs this weekend.

Saturday was mostly sunny and warm and a westerly filled in ranging from
12-16 knots.  But there was a fairly raging 3 knot ebb.  The game was to
get out to the right away from the club to get better wind and positive
current.  Everybody played the starting line well enough to not get
swept over early.  Downwind most chose to wire out and the trick was to
find the balance between better wind but not bucking too much current,
though many seemed to go pretty far out.

First race was a one lapper and then two two lappers.  Lasagna and beer
at the club went down well.

Sunday had varying forecasts, but most put the wind at SSW.  So the
start line was down by Alcatraz really close to the leeward mark.  The
variability in the forecast was in the strength.  As it turns out, we
spent a fair amount of time sailing downwind in light to moderate and
shifty winds just to stay up current of the start line.  RC started an
F18 race but held everyone else.

Finally it filled in stronger than the day before and out of the SW.
Fronts came through bringing some nice gusts maybe around 20.  With our
330# on board we were raked to -6 at times, but still just could not
hang with the bigger teams (also they were just better teams as well!)
The fleet really spread out on this day due to the conditions and the
long windward leg.  The RC has to set the mark out of the shipping
channel and so it was pretty far away up by the club.

There were definitely some rivers to ride and I'm sure the top guys were
playing that and the wind a bit, but we were mostly hanging on, trying
to keep the boat flat as possible and minimize mistakes, which we did
a good job of.  No capsizes for us the whole weekend and we sailed away
from every gybe.  Plenty of people pitched it though over the weekend
and we had some crazy near misses, and abandoned one attempt to get boat
speed up before trying again.

There was a little bit of commercial traffic to deal with but not too
bad.  We did actually have to douse the chute once and sail astern of
a huge container ship that we just did not want to mess with.  Probably
a good call.

The downwind rides on day two were AWESOME!!!  To get to the mark you
had to sail through this crazy cabbage patch of churning water with some
big waves.  For us, at that point in the race on the second lap we were
safely ahead of the guys behind us and the guys ahead of us were long
gone so we just played it very conservatively.  Also probably a good
call because one boat got tangled in the leeward mark and dragged it
upwind, down current.  Getting around that mark was tricky.  We actually
pulled a 5 and a 7 on Sunday, the windier day.

Only two races Sunday due to the postponements but everyone was totally
worked by then.

Jeff Miller with his 40+ years of 505 experience got 3 bullets the first
day and sailed well enough the second day to win.  He even sailed to the
wrong weather mark the first race Sunday (it was a little bit confusing)
and still did well enough to win.  I can't tell you what else was
happening in the front because honestly, we weren't close enough to see.
PVG and Parker did pretty well pulling a 5th overall.

All in all, the competition was top notch but the racing was great
throughout the fleet.  After some beers and Mexican food at the club
a number of us headed back to the airport for the trip home.  I ran into
Katherine Long, Mike Powell, and Josh Dyck at the airport for some
celebratory libations and food before we boarded our respective flights.
I had a blast crewing and have about fifty bruises to show for my
flailing around the boat.  It might not have been the prettiest crew
work but - hey - we didn't pitch it.

Even though I was crewing and I normally drive, I feel like I gained
some good experience.  Even though the best teams were so far ahead of
us I still feel there is some benefit to sailing against the toughest
teams you can.  Bottom line though is it was FUN!


Erik Coburn

-------------------------

StFYC Spring Dinghy Regatta Report
Jeff Miller

2016-03-23


St. Francis YC Spring Dinghy Regatta Report, March 19-20

Jeff Miller

StFYC delivered another fine event, with weather fronts complicating the
normal sea breeze pattern and strong currents throwing another layer of
complexity into the mix.  Saturday started off with a postponement while
we wondered if the wind would fill.  But this is the City Front and the
sea breeze would not be denied.  We got going in a comfy 10 knots on
a race course set fairly close to shore, with a strong ebb dictating we
head out to the middle of the bay.  Pat and I were doing fine upwind
until I messed up the layline and had to jibe around behind the pack at
the weather mark.  But look!  The whole fleet jibe set out to the middle
to catch more breeze, while we stayed inshore for the current relief.
Well, heading outside despite the current was the winning tactic in last
year’s Fall Regatta, but not today.  We sneaked down the shore and in
front at the bottom mark, just ahead of Brian Haines/Evan Diola (Pat’s
brother) and JB/Skip, and with a short beat to the finish we tucked away
our first bullet in a long time.

With the breeze building we set off on a two lap course with everybody
heading out to catch the ebb. We managed a decent top mark rounding and
headed for current relief inshore.  While others were still looking for
the breeze outside, we played a nice zone between the shore relief and
the wind outside to get to the bottom mark in front with Howie/Reeve and
Harrison/Jackson behind.  We held those guys off for another lap and
ended up with another bullet.  The strategy for the day seemed to be all
on downwind moves; upwind was nothing more than a drag race out to the
ebb.

The third race looked to be a replay of the first two, but this time we
started poorly and got pinned heading to the shore, while Howie/Reeve
started on port below the pack, hit the ebb first and were launched.  We
rounded the top mark deep, followed the pack down the shore, and then
rounded the bottom mark outside a pair of boats.  We tried footing out
to the ebb, which did not pay, but at the top mark we noticed something;
a fog line under the bridge.  Parker/PVG noticed it first and jibe-set.
We followed, as did JB/Skip, and sure enough there was good pressure.
Parker/PVG went a little too far, and as JB/Skip tried to roll us, we
jibed to stay in the pressure.  The pack in front on the shore looked
slow, so we worked the middle and--- I’ll be damned--- we rounded the
bottom mark in front, with JB/Skip and Parker/PVG behind.  Three bullets
in one day; a rare feat for team Jeff/Pat!

The weather front moved in on Sunday, with a southerly breeze competing
with the westerly.  The RC set up the course ready for the southerly,
with the starting line way out past Alcatraz.  But then the westerly
took over.  The catamarans started in front of us in the westerly, but
our start was quickly postponed as strong southerly puffs disrupted the
plans.  When things got going again, we didn’t realize a new weather
mark had been set, and four boats set off with us heading for the old
weather mark that the cats were still using.  The rest of the fleet laid
the new weather mark on starboard (due to strong ebb), and by the time
we realized what was going on we were half a mile behind.  Due to the
wild 20+ knot puffs there was some carnage in front of us and so we
managed a sixth.  I have no idea what happened in front of us, but the
results show JB/Skip winning with the newly reunited Ted/Brian next.

The fifth and final race got underway in a strong southerly, 15-25+
knots.  We were caught on the outside of the first shift off the line,
and never really recovered.  The southerly at StFYC means lots of tricky
shifts near the top mark, causing lots of place changes.  Ted/Brian
showed their world-class form by taking the final gun, with JB/Skip
almost stealing the event with a second.  We managed a fifth place which
was good enough to tie JB/Skip on points but win on the tie-breaker.

It was an exciting event beginning to end, with StFYC handling things
well despite the challenging conditions on Sunday.  For several visitors
from the Northwest, it was their first taste of the City Front, but
given the 505-worthy conditions, I think it won’t be their last.
Overall, I think everybody agreed that the event was an extremely fair
test of sailing skill and ability. ;-)


