1995 505 North American Championships

The North American championship was held in Vancouver, from June 15th to the
18th, shortly after the Canadian Championship. Teams from Vancouver, Central
BC, the Canadian prairies, Ontario, Seattle, the San Francisco area, Los
Angeles, and the US Mid Atlantic region participated. Conditions for the NAs
were mixed. Most races were light to medium with significant shifts and puffs.
Olympic courses with the run before the reaches and with gate (rabbit) starts,
were used for the six race series. Racing was very close, with the teams in the
top positions changing during a race and from race to race, and five different
teams winning races. Three teams could win overall going into the last race. It
is interesting how even with different sails, rigs, crew weights and sailing
styles, major 505 events always come down to the last race - and often the last
leg! Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin from Long Beach had a one quarter point lead
over Robin Brown/Dave Thomas of Vancouver, with Ali Meller/John Fry from the
Mid Atlantic region another five points back, and Mike Punnett/Scott Ikle of Sun
Valley and upstate New York eight points behind them.

In the last race, Hamlin/Martin led at the first mark, and gybe set looking for
a little more breeze on the south side of the course. The boats that did bear
away sets and headed for the North side of the run did rather better, as
Hamlin/Martin fell back to about 12th at the leeward mark, with Punnet/Ikle in
1st, Brown/Thomas holding a regatta winning top five position, and Meller/Fry
back with Hamlin/Martin in 11th. Brown/Thomas held their position around the
course, while Hamlin/Martin's efforts to get back into the top five did not
succeed. This gave the North American title to Robin and Dave, with Howard and
Mike 2nd. Punnet/Ikle's leading the race gave them a shot at third overall, if
Meller/Fry finished 8th or worse. At the last leeward mark, Punnet/Ikle were
comfortably leading, while Meller/Fry were 9th. Punnet/Ikle won the race. In a
little more breeze on the last beat Meller/Fry were able to close on the boats
ahead of them, and pass two on the finish line, finishing 7th and saving third
overall by 3/4 of a point. Punnet/Ikle were 4th, while Bruce Edwards/Jonathan
Livingston were 5th.

Robin Brown/Dave Thomas raced a great series, avoiding the disasters that
befell other contenders, and came out the 1995 North American champions.

Three of the top four teams will be representing the US at the 505 World
Championship in England, July 27 to August 4th.

photographs

Other notable performances were: Joe Burcar and Peter Lehman borrowing a
club-owned 505 they had not sailed before, missing the first two races, but
putting it together and getting around the race course; I hope to see you at
the next event Joe and Peter. Dale Phillips and Julie Giguere sailing in when
they noticed the shrould fitting pulling out, rigging tarps and a spinnaker to
keep the rain off the repair area, fixing the boat, and getting back out there
for more racing - sounds like those NFL videos that go "with grim
determination......" Son and father team Peter and Fred Grimm reminded me of
how I got into racing; I wish I had been steering a 505 in the North American
championship when I was twelve! Check out the results for Race 3, the Grimms
beat many of the rockstars! Finally Kirk Gooding and Don Smith who seemed to
have a magnetic attraction for the KYC dock and the rabbit; when they got off
the line, their average finish was 10th!

Brown/Thomas sailed 7039, a launcher equipped Hamlin built in '79 or '80.
Hamlin/Martin raced 7771, a mid '80s launcher Waterat, while Meller/Fry sailed
a '79 or '80 forward tack spinnaker bag equipped Lindsay. Punnet/Ikle raced
8013, their '87 Waterat, now converted to a launcher boat. Top teams in both
the Canadians and the North Americans used Proctor D masts (with the exception
of the Hendersons who used a Superspar mast). A variety of sails were used by
the top boats. Punnet/Ikle used Pinnels, Hamlin/Martin used Ullman Dangers,
Leitch & McBride sails were popular with the Vancouver boats including
Brown/Thomas, while Meller/Fry used North sails. The Hendersons used sails made
by Anne Henderson. Given their performance in the Canadians their may be more
interest in Henderson 505s and sails!

Canadian Fleet 1 put on two outstanding events. Apart from the racing
activities, several social events were held, including a steak dinner during
the Canadians, and a grilled salmon dinner during the North Americans. A
variety of draw prizes were given out during a hilarious event hosted by Wayne
Brox, 505 sailor and commodore of KYC. A number of sponsors contributed prizes
or services. The delicious local micro brewery amber draft beer was much
appreciated by sailors each evening. The Embroidered Patagonia bags given as
trophies to the top five crews and skippers were beautiful, and very useful.

Race Committee work was excellent for both events. In particular, 505 North
Americans RC chairman Steve Tupper did a great job of getting races in without
using the lay day or continuing races when the wind was too light. Apart from
allowing competitors to relax on Sunday the 18th, it also allowed Steve to
depart on a well deserved cruise!


li Meller / ameller@mcimail.com
