http://www.sandiego505.com/2001InvitationalResults.htm

SanDiego505 - Mission Bay Yacht Club Int'l 505 Invitational Regatta
Saturday-Sunday, June 2-3 2001
By Bill Jenkins

The third annual Mission Bay Yacht Club 505 Invitational, hosted by the world
famous Fleet 3, continued to improve over previous years with 14 total entrants
including 9 local entries and 5 boats from points north. Admittedly there were
some rough edges, but the competition was intense and, in true San Diego
tradition, the festivities were second to none.

This year's edition of the Invitational featured rabbit starts, occasional
trapping conditions, and enough kelp (that would be "salad", not "weed") to
satisfy just about everyone. In an unseasonable southerly, Andy Beeckman and
Ben Benjamin (the Young Bucks) quickly realized that sailing along the beach up
the left side of the course was the fast ticket to the weather mark. In the
first race they lost faith and were passed on the left by Dan Thompson/Andy
Zinn and Nick Adamson/Alan Norman on the second beat. But the rest of the day
belonged to the Bucks as they finished ahead for the day on a tie-breaker with
Thompson and Zinn.

In the second tier, Thad Lieb and Paul Kerner duked it out with Dave Byron/John
Meade and local favorites Dan Merino/Bill Jenkins (the Weasels). Lieb and
Kerner held a 1-point lead over the Weasels at the end of the day after fending
off a last minute charge in the third race. Fleet 3 regulars Steve
Schnelker/Geoff Nelson, Chris Stomberg/Michel Fialas, and Bill McKinney/Karl
Liebat ended the day with one point separating each of them.

The de-brief that evening focussed on tactics going upwind, boat handling and
sail trim in the occasional light-and-lumpy conditions, and the proper
vocabulary to use while removing salad from the rudder. Without doubt, the
highlight of the weekend shone on the party Saturday night: ground-beef patties
and chicken breasts grilled over open flames, a chilled keg of locally brewed
beer, an attractive assortment of wives and girlfriends in attendance, Need I
say more?

Sunday morning dawned promising with wind blowing through the parking lot and
on the sail out to the racecourse. Nevertheless, light-and-lumpy prevailed in
the end. Thompson and Zinn won the fourth race and the Bucks suddenly felt the
pressure of their third place the day before. Sailing off to the left side
again after the fifth race start, the Bucks rounded the weather mark well ahead
and were on their way to a regatta triumph. Unfortunately, at that time a
sand-dredge was in the process of cutting off the second half of the fleet and
the race committee decided to abandon the race. (The Weasels, looking to round
the weather mark deep in the fleet, later denied any responsibility for the
unusual chain of events.)

Thompson/Zinn won the resail. The Young Bucks gracefully accepted defeat. And a
good time was had by all.

Lame excuses:

Howie and Mike  too busy sipping wine in Europe.
Bruce and Dave  Honeymooning together in Tahiti 'cause that's where Mike went so it must be fast.
Evert and Chris  working out the bugs on their new "zero aspect/zero drag" rudder.
Ryan and Carl  Haven't stopped puking after the latest upside-down chugging incident.
Doug, Stuart, and the rest of the Nor-Cal boys  San Diego is so far awaayyy...
