http://www.int505.org/usa/events/200104SSASpringI.htm

SSA Spring I
April 14-15

Ali Meller

Ten 505s opened the regatta season on the Chesapeake at the SSA Spring I event
this past weekend. They were joined by 8 International 14s (with several coming
from as far as Canada) and on Saturday only, by 12 Lasers. A 29er clinic was
also being held and this drew eight 29er teams from all over along with US
Sailing Olympic coach Luther Carpenter and 49er and Laser Olympic campaigner
Kevin Hall. SSA was a beehive of activity; great to see all this going on in
mid April!

Conditions were light, puffy and shifty, with marginal trapezing (in the puffs)
on Saturday and less on Sunday. Nevertheless PRO Rob Bonney and his RC team got
3 races in on Saturday and 2 on Sunday, judiciously shortening courses on at
least two occasions when the wind threatened to die completely.

Every SSA 505 currently at SSA (8734 is still in England) raced, with Dustin
Romey (very temporarily without a boat.. more on this later) borrowing Clayton
James' boat to race. Macy Nelson/Latane Montague and Barney Harris/Mike Nunes
came from WRSC, while Bill Heintz and Laura Seuschek drove in from New York.

While the fleet spread out in some races due to one side of the beat being
strongly favored (hint: GO LEFT!), several of the races had very close racing,
including the last one, which featured multiple place changes on the last
drifting reach to the finish. Many teams had their moments with at least the
Bob O'Brien/Arnaud Lucas, Lauren Abramson/Kirby, and John Hauser/Mike Albert
leading races (Hauser/Albert won the last race after passing two teams at the
hoist and then passing Abramson/Kirby later on the first reach). In the end
Team Spot (Barney Harris/Mike Nunes) won three of the five races, but was held
out of the top spots overall by a poor first race (Team Spot was about five
minutes late for the start) and the absence of a throwout. Ali Meller/Allan
Freedman(Saturday)/Macy Nelson(Sunday) won the first race and had other
finishes of 2nd and 3rd to win the event. 

After prizes

Lauren Abramson/Kirby were 2nd overall, a point in front of Harris/Nunes.
Nelson/Montague only raced Saturday (Nelson sailed with Meller on Sunday) while
Dustin Romey/Kevin Mehaffey only raced Sunday. Romey's excuse for missing
Saturday was the need to complete his tax return. This is a little hard to
believe, because as PRO Rob Bonney noted at the competitor's meeting, all the
sailors ready to race on Easter Weekend/last-chance-to-do-your-taxes-day
suggested that many sailors' religious practices revolve around dinghy racing,
and none of them make enough money to have to worry about paying taxes or
filing returns.

Some of the highlights I recall are:

The pitched battle for last and second last in the final race. These two teams
went at it all the way around the triangle; it seemed like they were never more
than a couple of boatlengths apart.

Steve Cherry showing the benefits of winter practice. Steve had some really
good starts (easily taking Meller/Freedman out on one) and had 8610 moving
well.

Lauren/Kirby and 6987. The boat keeps disappearing from the circuit for nine
month periods while Lauren tries to get "one more coat of Awlgrip" on it, but
each time it returns it looks even better. If you have a Lindsay and need to
refinish it, you should check this boat out. I doubt the tanks looked better
when the boat was new! The boat is 22 years old! In addition to having the best
looking boat Lauren/Kirby were flying as well, leading several races.

The return of soon-to-be-Dr. Mike (Mike, you cannot study all the time, and
besides you'll only have to file an income tax return if you do become a Dr..
see above) and John Hauser's return after getting his knee worked on.

Another Hauser/Albert highlight was them grinding down Meller/Freedman on the
run to the finish of race #2, getting the better gybe onto starboard to blanket
Meller/Freedman as the two teams sailed for the finish line, only for the two
teams to cross without a sound signal. OOPS! THIS ISN'T THE FINISH LINE! THAT
OTHER LINE OVER THERE TO WINDWARD THAT TEAM SPOT AND O'BRIEN/LUCAS ARE CROSSING
NOW IS THE CORRECT FINISH LINE. You've never seen two teams douse kites and get
their boats going back upwind so fast....

Almost the entire fleet inverting on the second reach of race two.
O'Brien/Lucas rounded the leeward mark first, with Meller/Freedman second,
havng passed at least three or four teams by going a little high and getting to
a small puff first.

Those who did not have various Easter dinner (or tax form) commitments went to
"The Clipper" after racing on Saturday and to Davis' Pub after racing Sunday.
Amongst the discussison topics on Sunday were how different the 505 fleet is
from the 14 fleet.

It was great to see a ten boat turnout this early in the season; I think we had
4 505s at a one day event this time last year. Dustin Romey has sold his KISS
Rondar to Guck, Inc., but announced over the weekend that he and Kevin are
buying Ken Elliot's Lindsay 505. The Hampton fleet's loss is fleet 19's gain.
With Lauren and Kirby now keeping their Lindsay 6987 at SSA, and 8734 expected
to return in May/June along with an older Parker that Ali is bring over and
making available for charter, we should have nine 505s in the SSA dinghy park.
I want to see ALL NINE out racing TESOD a few times!!!!


