http://www.int505.org/usa/events/200105Hooverph/200105HooverREP.htm

2001 Hoover Regatta Report
May 12-13, 2001


Mother’s Day Weekend in Columbus, OH

by Adam Gesing

On arriving at Hoover, Jeff Cashman and his fiancée revealed a major scheduling
error on their part -- a  wedding over next Mother's Day weekend.  To no avail,
we tried to convince the happy couple that their anniversary will forever
conflict with this perfect opener to the Mid-West 505 sailing season.

This year’s regatta was best in years. It was attended by 10 crews from
Chicago, Indiana, Cincinnati, Toledo and Windsor, in addition to the growing
local fleet. Hot weather earlier in May had raised the Hoover reservoir water
temperature to an already comfortable level.  Graham and Carol Alexander
managed to put in a request for a very timely cold front to roll through the
area on Friday night, complete with heavy downpours and spectacular light shows
for us driving to the event.  In accordance with the perfect organization this
year, the rain was over when we arrived  to pitch our tent on the Hoover club
grounds.  The  wind filled in trailing the cold front providing Northerly
breezes that built to exciting 20-knot gusts, forcing several crews to test the
balmy Hoover waters.  In these conditions my winter fat served me well on the
meat hook on upwind legs, but made us slower on the downwind spinnaker reaches.
Short legs for the five races made for a lot of good practice in starting, mark
rounding and boat handling in challenging windy and gusty conditions.  

Graham sailed with this long time crew Mark, Ki with his steady partner John,
and Renka as always had me on the wire.  This renewed a perennial rivalry among
these crews  for the dominance of the Mid-West fleet.  Other pairings of note,
Dave Stetson sailed with his son, and the majority of the fleet consisted of
mixed crews usually with the gentler hands on the tiller where they properly
belong. A new addition to the Hoover fleet was 505 8011 with new owners Chad
and Carolyn Price, two accomplished windsurfers looking for excitement in
boaring (for windsurfers) 20-knot breezes.

By the end of the first day the pattern was set. Graham dominated his local
puddle with a string of first and second  finishes.  Ki and Renka competed for
second with Ki coming  ahead by few points (thanks to a spinnaker hoisting
block breakdown that delayed our start in the last race of the day).  On the
second day three races were sailed in light and shifty conditions allowing the
lighter crews to show flashes of brilliance,  at times Stetsons, Breedens, and
Longs all challenged for the lead, but Graham refused to be a gracious host
with the string of three bullets for the day to seal his convincing win.

Carol as usual chaired a very able race committee to efficiently finish all the
8 races in time for Graham to run the club Sunday afternoon race series and let
us get home in good time and humor.

Good job Hoover…..


