http://505denver.homestead.com/files/Timberline_Regatta_Report.htm

Timberline Regatta Report, June 10th, 2001, Union Reservoir, Longmont, Colorado, Wild West, USA

By Erik Cockburn; USA 6136

3 boats managed to awaken out of Winter Slumber to make Fleet 36’s first
regatta of the season. Lame excuses abounded, but basically it boiled down to
the sailing season sneaking up on the fleet, leaving many teams unprepared with
their boats still in pieces, including my own. Bear in mind that the snow only
stopped flying here less then one month ago.

I would like to thank the teams that did make the races. They were: Dick Peck
and his son Steve, sailing Lindsay 7318, the venerable "Dumptruck;" Steve
Zimmerman and ace crew Phillip Ryan handling the beautiful, blue Waterat 8014
"Mariah;" and Allan Wilson and Bill Green banded together to work the bugs out
of Bill’s red Buzzenger beast, 7204. Race committee duties were performed by
Mark Angliss, Troy Vance, fleet guest Mark Counts, and yours truly. Many thanks
to the race committee and to Allan for loaning us an El Toro with a 2 horse
engine for buoy movement. (a tea cup with a motor) Also, to Tom Resignolo who
loaned us his 18’ white water Avon raft as the RC barge while he was out of
town.

Despite a small turn out, the regatta was by all counts a success. For those
that skipped it, I believe it provided a necessary kick in the ass to get their
boats going as the next race is next Saturday. For those that made it on the
water, it gave them a chance to fine tune the "to do list" and get the lead out
and warm up for the upcoming season. We had beautiful weather: temps in the low
80’s, winds out of the southeast clocking to the south-southeast over the
course of the day. Velocity generally was 7 – 12 knots, with some 4 knot lulls
and a few 15 knot gusts. The format was short-course college style, with a mix
of triangles, sausages, and a triangle/sausage.

6 races were run with no throw outs. The RC attempted to keep the lines and
courses square, and overall the races were fair and no one had any complaints
(that I knew of). After all, when there is enough wind for wire rides, you
can’t help but have fun.

This was the first of a 6 regatta fleet points series. Each sailor will be
scored individually over the course of the season. This is because in our fleet
we often change up skipper and crew combinations as the season progresses so we
can learn from each other. The RC (myself in this case), will be awarded the
average of my season scores for running this regatta, which I volunteered to do
in January at the Annual Meeting.

Phillip and Zim seem to be off to a good start. Anything can happen though as I
suspect we will see at least 6 boats starting at next week’s event and the
other boats that raced today now have their heads in the game.

One peculiar highlight: at the end of the day, the teacup ran out of gas, and
Dick and his boat, now renamed "Tow Truck," towed in not only the defunct dink,
but the entire rubber party barge as well, all the while with Troy trolling for
bass. Didn’t catch anything but it was hilarious as hell as this 22 year old
Lindsay showed it is a boat of many talents. We were going about 3 knots too!
You gotta love the 5 Oh!

See everyone next week, same 5 Oh lake, same 5 Oh channel ……
