http://www.int505.org/usa/events/200104SCYC1REP.htm

505 Santa Cruz "Coldwater" Container Qualifiers

A strong fleet of 17 boats showed up for the first of 4 container qualifying
series at Santa Cruz. The conditions were "classic" Santa Cruz springtime with
12 to 22 knot breezes and COLD water (49 degrees). A strong contingent from
Southern California of 6 boats and 2 additional rock star crews rounded out an
11-boat Nor Cal turnout. 4 races were sailed on Saturday and 3 races on Sunday.
Contestants were treated to Sue Athman's designed T-shirts and a weekend of
classic Dave Wahle’s "Guerilla Race Management" fantastic races.

The "Young Bucks" Beeckman/Benjamin were first out of the gate with some smart
sailing on the "Gummy de Milo" and took it to the veterans Nick Adamson/Alan
Norman. Adamson/Norman who rounded the first mark in every race Saturday in
first place, were dubbed the "Unguided Missile" for their blazing first legs
only to succumb to various crash and burns later in the races and take the
classic "Surely in Defeat title" for the weekend.

NorCal teams Thad Lieb/Paul Kerner and Doug Hagan/Stuart Park had a slugfest
all the way to the finish line and were awarded EVEN points for a tie at the
line. It just goes to show how close the racing was all around the course.

Race 2 saw the wind building to about 18 knots, and the local heroes
Edwards/Shelton "burgled" the race from Ryan Cox and Carl Smit right at the
finish line. Seems the Navy boys got distracted when a Chinese jet fighter
buzzed them. In the distraction, the local sleaze dogs got the gun. Ryan was
heard yelling at Wahle "we didn't cause the incident".

Race 3 ramped up to about a steady 20 knots and Race Manager Dave Wahle decided
to run a triangle instead of the classic Triangle-Sausage to allow for a full
race 4. The racing was tight and at the gun the Young Bucks in "Gummy" took the
gun again. Danny Thompson and Andy Zinn missed the first 2 races of the day
because they were still "Screwing and Gluing" their brand new Waterat boat
together in the dinghy park. In their first race in their new boat "New Wood"
(replacing Nice Wood, aka Roadkill USA 7201) they almost got the bucks and took
a second. Thompson was quoted as saying "This is better than S...." That says a
lot for Thompson.

Race 4 was blowing a steady 22 knots with gusts to 25 and Race Guru Wahle set
the full course. The slimmed down team of Edwards/Shelton blew past the race
leaders off wind and took the gun, close behind was Hamlin/Martin re teamed up
for this year sailing the black boat.

Sunday’s racing started an hour earlier at 12 noon. Local Hero's
Edwards/Shelton again took the gun just ahead of Hamlin and Martin in slightly
warmer 12-knot race. Followed again by the Young Bucks and "New Wood".

Race 6 saw winds cranking up to 16 knots with an eventual slugfest that was won
by Thompson and Zinn in the "New Wood". They took the lead on the first beat
and never looked back. The first victory in the new boat was a sweet one and
they were heard taunting second place finishers and fellow "Team Tuesday"
members Hamlin/Martin, over the breeze with the chant: "You going down, the New
Wood is in town"

Race 7 of the series was won by the da bucks in "Gummy" rounding out a great
series.

One of the most interesting things is that the entire fleet was exceptionally
close in all races even considering the higher winds. It was a testament to the
overall talent in the class and how high the standard of racing is in the
fleet.


Excuses/Quotes:

* Aaron Ross for not sailing on Day 2: The "farfrompukin" sticker on his
  transom didn't apply Saturday night (and a broken mast).
* Eric Willis for missing races 3 and 4 on Saturday: Apparently, he and Wendy
  were feeling a bit frisky and decided that wet and cold wasn't exactly what
  they had in mind, soooo….his email is ewillis@foxhollowtech.com and he will
  give you the rest of the details: * Howie on the regatta: "I think this was a
  closer and more competitive event than the NA’s last year"
* Thompson/Zinn for missing races 1 & 2: "Zinn couldn't find the special pole fitting"

MIA: Send them an email: Team Northwest, Rob Waterman, Gump/Ruggles,


