RIVA CUP and EUROPA CUP Regatta
Riva del Garda - 13th to 16th May 1999
Report: Bill Masterman

Forty-nine boats from five European countries, including 12 from the UK,
competed for the Riva Cup.

Day one started in typical Riva conditions with a 20-knot southerly thermal
breeze. The fleet got away at the second attempt and immediately headed for the
stronger winds by the cliffs on the right hand side of the course. Ian Pinnell
and Dan Johnson showed the fleet the way home, followed by Simon Payne and Bill
Masterman.

In the second races Jan Saugmann and Morten Ramsbaek from Denmark showed
exceptional heavy weather speed to lead from start to finish. Second was Ian
Pinnell, followed by Stefan Bohm and Gerald Roos from Germany.

After a perfect opening day Garda turned the wind off on Friday with no racing
as a result.

A 9 o'clock start was posted for Saturday morning to catch the Northerly
breeze. Ex-world Champions Jorgen Schoenherr and Anders Kaempe from Denmark
showed signs of their old form. They won race 3 from Simon Payne.

Another early start for Sunday with two races being held in glorious sunshine
and 10 - 15 knots from the South. Stefan Bohm and crew Gerald Roos hit the go
fast button, winning race 4 comfortably with Pinnell second and Payne third.

Going into the final race, four boats had a realistic chance of winning. Stefan
Bohm won again, but it was Payne and Masterman who clinched the Riva Cup with a
hard fought second place following a late challenge from Jorgen Schoenherr.

The 505 Europa Cup series is proving increasingly popular giving top class
European competition throughout the season. Lake Garda again lived up to its
expectations providing fantastic conditions along with breathtaking scenery.
With the World Championship in Quiberon, France, a mere 6 weeks away, the pace
is hotting up!

Congratulations to Simon and Bill - impressive, consistent sailing. Well done
also, Charlie Walters and Christian Diebitsch, second British boat at eighth.
Bill politely omitted to mention that some of the British boats spoilt their
results by missing races - some missed the 0900 race on Saturday (ouch), and
some were concerned for their homeward flight and skipped the last race
(unnecessarily, as it transpired).

The sailing was always interesting as well as testing. In every race there were
patches of lighter air and lines of heavier wind. At 0800 on Saturday morning,
at the club there was no wind, but three miles away in the race area we could
see hundreds of windsurfers having a cracking good time; we were all towed out
into the wind. We got our race, and the then wind died for the day. There was
some waiting around on the water, but the organisation was excellent, and on
the whole they predicted their local conditions well. There was quite a lot of
mist and cloud, and rain at times, so the winds were not quite up to their
usual force.

The French were largely absent. Their regatta 'Grand Prix des Vins de Bordeaux'
at Maubisson was on the same dates and attracted 32 boats (I wonder why? Could
it have anything to do with the half case of quality wine given to each boat?).
(Philippe Boite just won, winning seven of the ten races but counting an OCS.
See report and results elsewhere) - RAN
