REGATTA REPORT: CARL MILLER OCT 3-4 WEST RIVER SAILING CLUB

The 505 sailing schedule at West River Sailing Club south of Annapolis
is, by tradition, really two seasons in one. We usually schedule
regattas and events in the spring and early summer when the wind is up,
and then knock off in July and August to avoid the summer doldrums. The
fall season usually kicks off with the annual Mid-Atlantic championship
in mid-September, when the breeze is back on. But this year, because of
a conflict with the worlds, we moved that regatta to the spring, so the
traditional fall season began a little late with the Carl Miller regatta
held at West River Oct. 3-4. All in all, the regatta shaped up as a fine
event. We were worried that "worlds burnout" would hold down turnout,
and indeed a few teams opted not to show. Last year, the Carl Miller was
a 13 boat regatta, and this year we had a maximum of ten boats on the
line.

Remarkably, we had about a half dozen newcomers. The recruits included
Joe Potvin, who is looking to get back into sailing after a long
absence, who sailed two races with Ali Meller in the KISS Rondar on
Saturday, before switching out. Allan Freedman sailed with Ali the
remainder of the weekend. Josh and Steve Lieberman, a son father team,
came down to check out the boat, and are weighing a purchase. They spent
most of Saturday in Ali's blue Waterat, sailing two races with Allan
Freedman and one with Mike Breton. Carl Wilson, another newcomer who
seems about as psyched as any one man can be, sailed with Mark Freedman,
before hopping into Barney Harris' two year old Waterat for the third
race. Peter Epstein brought his classic Parker all the way from Toronto
and had quite an adventure Sunday when the boat nearly sank (see report
elsewhere). Henry and Doug Amthor from Hampton, VA, dropped by to keep
the locals on their toes.

Saturday was light and frustrating, with a 3-5 knot easterly. There was
too much time spent sitting on the centerboard cap or the leeward tank
to make for really interesting sailing. It was one of those days when
people come in after racing and mumble that perhaps golf would be the
sport for them. Harris/Falsone and Amthor/Amthor pretty much dominated
the day. The RC managed to fire off three short triangle windward
leeward races, and the key was found in a clean start and staying in the
breeze and out of the current, pretty much standard operating procedure
for a light air day on the Chesapeake. After racing the competitors
returned to West River Sailing Club for an informal BBQ hosted by the
International Canoe class.

The Sunday forecast promised an equally dismal outing. But it was not to
be. The breeze was up -- 10-15 knots from the Northeast. It was a cold
grey fall day. Frankly, the 505ers could not have been happier, despite
the chilly conditions. One sign that it was going to be a good day was
the decision by the 470 class to stay in because of the weather, always
a sure sign that a little breeze is in store. For much of the day,
Harris/Falsone and Amthor/Amthor duked it out for the lead, with
Meller/Freedman, having missed the first of three races of the day
because of equipment failure, chasing the leaders. Going into the last
race, Harris/Falsone had to beat Amthor/Amthor to ensure the lead for
the regatta.

Meller/Freedman nailed a pin start and led most of the windward leg,
rounding the windward mark first. The team, however, had less than
stellar off the wind or upwind speed due in part to some needed
adjustments on the KISS Rondar. The vang adjustment went out. On the
first reach, Ali could not get the centerboard up because the controls
had slipped out of the blocks. After much yelling at the thing, it
finally popped up like a trained dog, but Amthor/Amthor and then Harris
Falsone slipped by at the end of the second reach, and the order for the
race had been set.

Overall:Amthor/Amthor were first, Harris/Falsone second and
Meller/Freedman third. In contrast to Sunday, all competitors were
smiling, with the possible exception of Epstein who saw his boat sink on
the race course. He and the boat were later rescued and returned safely
to shore. (Complete results will be a bit delayed as your fleet captain
was part of the rescue team and did not get the tally from the Race
Committee before leaving the club)

Allan Freedman
