Pacific Northwest Regionals

This past weekend of the 15th and 16th, the 505 regionals were held for
those in the Puget Sound area. Although the area has as many as 36 505s
only 6 boats showed up for the races. The regatta was held in Oak Harbor
on Whidbey Island, and the weather was perfect. The winds were between
12 and 20 knots both days; the wave action was not too bad with 2 too
3 foot swells.

The competitors consisted of John Dean/Alden Riley; Peter/Alan, Paul
Vongrey/Peter, Sue/Alexis, Doug Jensen/???, and Tim Moser/Jason Clark.
Some of the last names are not present on the results, so you guys know
who you are...

Both days had very close racing. In the first race the six boats were
split in two groups. Paul, Tim, and Peter fought for first the whole
race and finished close together, while the others were spaced widely
along the course. Paul took first; Peter second, and Tim third. Tim and
Jason could be heard all over the course with their boom box blasting
the music. In the next two races of the day, Tim took the firsts with
Paul chasing him in second, and Peter sweeping in the thirds. The day
ended with a catered diner on the dock; and Paul and Tim tied for first,
with Peter in third.

Sundays racing was that of humor and tactics. The humor first began as
Tim and Jason made a quick trip to Ace to pick up some tell-tails, and
returned with flags. So on the port shroud hung an "I love sailing"
flag, and from the starboard shroud hung the good old "Jolly Roger". The
racing conditions were the same though with a shorter and wider course;
this provided two long reaches. Race one started with all the boats on
the line and grouped together. The boats soon spaced themselves out and
left Paul and Tim battling it out in the front, with Paul leading.
However Tim's boat is a bag boat, and therefore it is easy to rig the
spin wrong if one is not paying attention to what they are doing while
rigging the boat... So on the last down wind leg they raise the
chute...sideways. Needless to say it was a Kodak moment. Being the young
spunks we are, we figured "What the hell we might as well leave it
up..." So we caught up to Paul and passed him on the reach to the
finish. It became a drag race between the two after Paul decided he
would like to do a different course, and started beating to the windward
mark. Tim took first Paul second, and John Dean third.

The next race of the day was very close. It was the longest course and
the most disappointing for Tim and Jason. The pair soon took the lead to
the weather mark. But suddenly came to a stand still...literally.
Because of the fact our boat is a bag boat it is very easy to do
this.... We lost the spin under the boat. It had fallen out on the hoist
and just stopped us dead in the water. So while we tried to drag the
sail out from in the centerboard trunk, and from under the boat, we
watched all the boats sail on by. Peter took first, Paul took second and
John Dean took third.

The next two races had shorter courses and were a lot more competitive.
Despite their best efforts Tim took second to Paul in the next race;
Paul finished first, Tim second, and John Dean third. The last race of
the day was the tie breaker. All racers were packed together throughout
the race. Tim took first, Peter second and Paul third. It was a close
finish with everyone was within seconds of each other. All together Tim
Moser / Jason Clark took first, Paul Vongrey / Peter took second, and
Peter / Alan took third.

I would like to say thank you to all who sponsored this event, and to
Paul and Sue for planing out the regatta. It was very competitive and
good sailing, and hope to see more boats out on the water in the future.

Tim Moser
US-6291
