 1998 SOCKS

The Seattle Yacht Clubs SOCKS regatta was held last weekend off of Shilshole
marina in Seattle.  SOCKS stands for Seattle One-design Centerboard Keelboat
Series, and had boats ranging from Opti's to Olson 30's racing.  Four local
505's showed up to race on Saturday, despite 20-25 kt. winds from the north and
a ebb tide building nasty tall, short period breaking waves.  Just the right
size to stick the launcher tube right into the wave in front.  The surfing was
fun when it worked though!  Carl Leede and Shipley/Shipley made it to the start
line in time for the first start and had a fun filled trip around the course
where each of the two boats capsized once (Leede at the windward mark and
Shipley/Shipley gybing for the leeward mark).  All four boats were milling
around for the second start, but when the gun went off Athmann/Moser's main
tore in half in a big puff and von Grey/Hamsher's mainsheet block ripped off of
the boom.  At some point Carl Leede's rudder broke (I'm not terribly sure when,
I was a little focused on keeping the centerboard pointing in the appropriate
direction with limited success), and supposedly on the way back to the dock
with the broken rudder Carl's crew decided for an unknown reason that swimming
is better than sailing, allowing Carl to practice his man overboard drills with
a less than totally functional rudder.  The I-14's loved watching the fun.  At
the third start Shipley/Shipley were the only 505 left, but this was not to
last.  Gybing for the leeward mark proved to be too much for the rudder,
leaving the boat turtled and waiting for rescue.

After licking our wounds and fixing our boats we showed up on Sunday with the
water barely riffled with wind.  After ghosting out to the start line, watching
the 49ers and I14's start, just to be called back as they stopped moving
somewhere before the windward mark, and doing the great dinghy drifter for
another hour and a half, the committee boat postponed the race until the
afternoon.  The wind built to a steady 3-6 kts out of the north in the
afternoon letting us get in 3 close and fun races before dinner time.  The
first start had one end greatly favored, causing a close start for three boats,
with the fourth (Athmann/Moser) deciding wisely to avoid the mess and start in
clear air.  At the windward mark all four boats were close together (which
continued to be true for the other two races as well) with von Grey/Hamsher
leading.  When the kites were hoisted though von

Grey/Hamsher's chute magically separated into two halves for some reason that
nobody can figure out.  For some reason we were started 2 starts after the
laser fleet (6 minutes) for the last two starts, making for some fun roundings
of the leeward mark with 50 odd lasers. Many thanks to SYC for running the
race, and for Werner who handled 8 odd classes of dinghys beautifully, so that
nobody ever waited long for a start, and most especially Paul von Grey and Sue
Athmann who did all of the work getting boats to come to the regatta, and
designing one of the coolest sailing shirts I've ever seen.

by Paul Shipley
