PUMPKIN PATCH REGATTA REPORT

Annual Fleet Party Is Oct. 31 Each year, West River Sailing Club wraps
up the 505 sailing season with the Pumpkin Patch regatta in late
October. The two-day event, held this year Oct. 17-18, is known for
chilly early fall conditions and ample breeze. This year, however, the
Pumpkin saw a bit of Indian Summer and conditions that seemed more late
summer than early fall, with a mix of light-air marginal trapezing and
a glorious picture perfect sea breeze that was more than an ample
bookend to a great season of racing.

Turnout was light to moderate, with a total of 9 competitors all hailing
from Fleet 19. Seven boats were on the start line Saturday and eight
made it out Sunday, with a few racers opting to sail only one day.

Some familiar and not so familiar faces included Mark Freedman sailing
with Bob Hill, Clayton James sailing with newcomer Burt Snider, Peter
Mignery teaming up with (Canadian import) Peter Epstein, Ali Meller and
Steve Lieberman (who now seems stoked to buy a 505), Tom Price and Eric
Johnson, Rene de la Rie and Allan Freedman, the brothers Breton, Mike
Breton (sailing Ali’s Waterat) and Les Crane and, of course, Barney
Harris and Jesse Falsone.

Saturday seemed at first a disaster in the making. Conditions were dead
calm as competitors arrived to rig up and head out. But around noon,
a gentle 5-8 knot sea breeze filled in and the RC was able to fire off
three short, triangle windward leeward windward races. The team of de la
Rie/Freedman, with two weeks of sailing the worlds under their belt,
came out swinging with three bullets. The team combined conservative
tactics and consistent boat speed.

In race one, despite a less than winning start, the team hit a nice left
shift halfway up the first beat, wound up on the inside of the shift and
rounded the mark first, never looking back after that. In race 2, the
competition was quite a bit closer with Meller/Falsone (sailing with Ali
Saturday and Barney Sunday). Price/Johnson and de la Rie/Freedman
rounding mark one in a tight pack. De la Rie/Freedman passed
Price/Johnson at the jibe mark and after a brief equipment failure
stayed close to Meller/Falsone(sailing the Kiss Rondar) passing them on
the upwind leg.

On Sunday, a picture perfect 505 day with ideal 10-15 knot southerly sea
breeze conditions, de la Rie sailed with Monty Schumpert, and Harris was
on the race course with Falsone. In race one, de la Rie/Schumpert
dropped to fourth, but managed to take a second in race two, securing
a win for the series, which this year served as the Fleet 19 Fleet
Championship. Harris and Falsone breezed to two bullets, and were never
seriously challenged all day. Ali sailing the KISS, which was suffering
all weekend because of a leak, finished second and Dylan and Matt Breton
finished third. The next event for fleet 19 is the annual party to be
held at Mike and Mary Breton’s house on Oct. 31. Hope to see everyone
there.

--Allan Freedman
