WRSC Spring Regatta
April 25-26

West River Spring, the traditional season opener for 505 fleet 19, has
a reputation for unpredictability. Some years it blows like hell. Other
years, racers are bummed out by too much tank sitting time and keep
praying for a little time on the wire. This year, the two day regatta
was pretty close to ideal, with strong nearly 30 knot breezes on day one
and lighter 5-12 knot conditions on day two. The 10-boat fleet,
including a solid showing from local fleet 19, included some impressive
resumes.

Ethan Bixby made the very long drive from his homeport in St.
Petersburg, Fla., so he could sail with Cam Lewis. Lewis was on
a stopover in the area between legs of the Whitbread race. (West River
Spring was one week earlier than usual to avoid the hoopla surrounding
the Whitbread set to start off Annapolis on May 3). Racers Tim Collins
and Bill Smith dropped in as well before heading up to New England for
the summer. Gary Bodie also made an appearance, driving Barney Harris's
boat with Jesse Falsone on the wire. No one could say for sure where
Barney had gone for the weekend. "Some work thing or something,"
according to Jesse.

The ride out to the race course on day one seemed to hold the promise of
a light air day and an easy transition into the season. But it was not
to be. The breeze and the chop quickly built, making for some demanding
sailing. In race one, for example, there was more breeze on the left
near the approach to the mark, and boats that went hard left to get into
the wind line got some dividends. The breeze tended to roll in at rather
odd moments, like as soon as you rounded the windward mark and were
getting set to do a jibe set. Macy Nelson and Monty Schumpert dumped in
just such a blast on the downwind slide in race one.

The conditions also made for some epic and rather strange moments. Ali
Meller, sailing with newcomer Clayton James, caused mouths to drop on
the committee boat when he did a bag boat skipper douse, with Clayton
driving from the wire. This was SOP for Ali (though a first for
Clayton), but the RC was used to a more relaxed brand of sailing. It was
reported that James had the look of fear during the turn of events. De
la Rie and Freedman perfected the art of sailing without a rudder and
asking the eternal question, "When can we get a tow in. All this sitting
around on the committee boat is making me seasick." Gusts to 28 knots
were noted by nearby leadmines with instruments.

After racing,the fleet retired to the lawn of WRSC, engaged in its
annual flag raising ceremony. The contrast of well dressed men and women
and 505 racers in their wet suits added necessary flavor to the event.
Day two lacked much of the drama of day one. The RC managed to get in
three races, much to their credit, including the last one right under
the two O'clock cutoff . The team of Ethan Bixby and Cam Lewis recorded
five straight bullets, and picked up top honors. Though they were not
usually in the lead early on, they were in the lead when it mattered at
the finish line. Following up in second, Collins and Smith recorded four
seconds and a fourth to capture third, and Englert and Melton took
third.
