Santa Cruz Spring Open Regatta 1998, April 25-26

Team McLube wins Santa Cruz Spring Open Regatta.

This past weekend fifteen 505s had the pleasure of sailing in Santa
Cruz. Although we did not get the big breeze that Santa Cruz is famous
for, we did get a good variety of wind which resulted in some very tight
racing. The races were run by Guerrilla race management. If you have
never sailed in Santa Cruz you would be amazed at the race committee
work of Dave Wahle. When you sail out in the morning the marks are all
perfectly set, but not lined up with the wind direction. As you sail
around before the start the wind shifts around and at the start the wind
has perfectly lined up with Dave's course. At the end of the day the
wind starts to die and become fluky, but just before the racing becomes
bogus there is Dave with a shortened course flag and a finish line set
up. Oh yea, and he does this all with only two boats and four people.
The best part is that if something did happen to go wrong, nobody
complains since Snivelling is expressly banned in the Sailing
Instructions.

The Racing

We had three races on Saturday with light to medium air in the first and
last races and good steady breeze in the middle race. There was very
tight racing with a different leader at the first weather mark of every
race. However Mike and Howard of Team McLube managed to be in the lead
at the finish of each race. The California State Champions Dave Shelton
and Bruce Edwards were often the early race leaders, and finished the
day with a 2,2,3. Also in the hunt with a 3,3,2 was the new team of old
veterans, Jim Maloney taking the place of the recently retired Bruce
Heckman and sailing with Jeff Miller. Keep an eye on this team they
could be dangerous in upcoming events.

Sunday we had two races in light to medium wind. The days first race was
lead at every mark by Team McLube. With Jim and Jeff 2nd and Steve Bartz
and newcomer-collage rock star Andy Beckman in 3rd. The day's second
race was a gruelling battle. Jim and Jeff lead most of the race followed
tightly by Canadians Rich Mondel & 1995 North American Champion Robin
Brown. Team McLube made big moves on the run to take the lead at the
leeward mark with Dave and Bruce close behind. Up the final beat Team
McLube managed to stay just ahead of Ben Benjamin and 1992 Laser
Olympian Nick Adamson who hit the shifts perfectly up the last beat to
take 2nd. Sundays race 3 was started, lead by Ben and Nick, then Mike
and Howard, then Jim and Jeff, and then abandoned when the wind died to
literally zero. It is amazing how poorly sailboats work in absolutely no
wind.


Extra Curricular Activities

After Racing on Sunday, we all got together one hour after hitting the
dock for a race debriefing, where we talked about what we thought was
and was not working with speed and tactics. It seemed very helpful to
everyone and we hope to make it a regular event on the Saturday of every
event.

After the debriefing, most of the gang went out to dinner across the
harbor. Later the young bucks went out on the town to celebrate Ben
Benjamin's 24th Birthday and feed him shots of Tequila, Wild Turkey,
Kamikazes, and Jagermister, all chased with Rum and Cokes. (Ouch!) The
awards ceremony on Sunday was a bit different than most. The trophies
that were generously donated by Bruce Edwards and West Marine Products,
were handed out by lottery. Each Competitor had their name in a hat and
the names were picked by random drawings for the prizes. Lots of small
prizes were given away, but the big winners were Rich Mondel and Bruce
Tilley, who scored big heavy-duty duffel bags.

It is not too late to get in the ranking system for FREE SHIPPING to the
Worlds in Hyannis from California. The Richmond High Performance Regatta
in two weeks is the next Ranking Regatta, see you all there.

