505 Team McLube squeaks out a victory at St Francis Regatta

The fifth of the six California worlds shipping qualifier events was
held over June 27th and 28th. Fifteen teams competed in 6 races, 3 each
day. Saturday morning had all the signs for a big blow. The fog line was
at the bridge and the breeze was out of the west at about 10 knots.
Unfortunately the wind did not fill in that hard until mid way through
the last race. Saturday's races were sailed in this shifty spotty
building breeze. The racing was very tight and starting and first beats
were very important. In every race the leader at the first mark was able
to extend their lead and win the race while everyone else fought it out
in the pack. The smart and fast team of Jim Maloney and the illustrious
Dr. Jeff Miller led the day with a 1,2,1 over Team McLube's Mike Martin
and Howard Hamlin with a 2,1,2. Rising stars Ben Benjamin and Andy
Beckman had a good day with a 3,4,4.

After sailing, the gang all met in the St. Francis YC bar to discuss the
day of racing. Later, the gang took off into town to try to find some
dinner and straight women.

Sunday was overcast and did not look promising, but the wind filled in
at about 15 to 18 knots by the second race, providing some good racing.

After being absent for day one Dave Shelton and Bruce Edwards led race
four followed by Mike and Howard. Just after rounding the leeward mark
Mike and Howard's rudder fell off causing quite a commotion as Mike was
swimming around trying to put the rudder back on while other boats were
rounding the leeward mark.

Ed. Let me guess, surfin' Dude Howard doesn't swim and sent Mike in
after the rudder?

Jim and Jeff went on to win the race with Dave and Bruce in 2nd. With
only two races to go Jim and Jeff had a good lead. Mike and Howard had
to win the last two races and put boats between them and Jim and Jeff.
Some how they pulled it off finishing 1, 1 in the last two races with
Dave and Bruce having a 2,2 and Jim and Jeff ending up with a 3,3. The
regatta was decided by a tie breaker with both teams having 3 firsts,
but Team McLube had two seconds to Jim and Jeff's one, giving Team
McLube the victory.

Thanks to Matt and the St. Francis Yacht Club for running the event.
Everyone had a good time, especially John Bonds who entered the regatta
sailing a laser and then filled in for Brian Largay on the Pony on
Sunday. After sailing 505 for one day, John said simply "Oh, I get it
now" I think that he is hooked.

