https://www.int505.org/blog/2023/05/19/garda-euro-cup-regatta-report-and-final-results/

Garda Euro Cup. Regatta Report and final Results

THANKS TO MIKE HOLT.

The second round of the 2023 505 Euro Cup circuit took place in the
sailing paradise of Riva Del Garda between May 16th and 18th. Boats from
8 countries made up the 38 boat fleet giving it a very International
flavor. Prior to the event the weather forecast had not been looking
good, with the prospect of rain and light winds. As luck would have it,
we were blessed with good conditions, plenty of sun and wind and just
the occasional shower.

Day one was mostly overcast and 3 races were run in the Northerly Peler
wind. This provided some interesting racing with plenty of shifts, puffs
and other challenges for the racers. Fresh from their win in round one
in France, Germany’s Jan-Phillip Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff started
strongly with a 4,1,1. Sailing smartly and fast. Also starting well from
the USA were Howie Hamlin and Caleb Paine with a 1,4,8 and British team
of Michael Sims and Carl Gibbon with a score of 8,3,3. All impressive
scores in such tricky conditions.

Day two started overcast and a light Peller breeze. With big swings in
direction and velocity it was a minefield of a racetrack, but Howie and
Caleb worked it out, taking a second race win in 4 starts. Michael and
Carl kept up the good work with a second and in 3rd holding off
challenges from some well-known World Championship winning teams were
the Polish team of Karol and Bartosz Milewski.

As we finished race 4 the wind shut off and finally the Ora appeared.
With a passion! Race 5 was sailed in the strongest breeze of the event
with pressure into 20 knots plus. Not really needing a head start, but
getting it anyway courtesy of a Port tack start, Americans Mike Holt and
Carl Smit sailed away to a win, with Jan-Philip and Felix clawing back
a very valuable 2nd and French team of Philippe Boite and Marin Carnot
grabbing 3rd. For race 3 the breeze had backed off but was still in the
“great sailing” category. Jan-Phillip and Felix grabbed their 3rd race
win, Germans Wolfgang Hunger and Holger Jess were 2nd and the
Irish/British team of Ewen Barry and Harry Briddon were 3rd.

For Day 3 the sun was shinning and the Ora was in. With just 2 more
races Jan-Phillip and Felix had a tight grip on the event, Howie and
Caleb in 2nd with a gap to Michael and Carl in 3rd. Race 7 started with
the breeze in the high teens to over 20 knots at times and with a heavy
pin bias Mike and Carl took full advantage to again Port tack the fleet
to win, with Michael and Carl (yes, confusing I know) in 2nd and Ewen
and Harry in 3rd. Jan-Phillip had scored a 14th and Howie and Caleb an
11th to crack the door open to the chasing teams…

So, to the final race, no one was quite sure of the points, but the top
4 boats had closed down considerably. With the wind still in the full
fun mode we were off again. At the top mark Mike and Carl led again,
sailing away to their 3rd win, Ewen and Harry clearly liking the breeze
in 2nd and Philippe and Marin having another good race in 3rd.
Jan-Phillip and Felix crossed in 7th not knowing if that was good enough
for the win… It was! Congratulations to them on sailing a great series.
Mike and Carl moved up to 2nd overall with a strong last day and Michael
and Carl filled out the podium in 3rd sailing a great series.

Once again Riva delivered, great host in Fraglia Vela Riva, great
competition and good to catch up with old friends from around the World
and make new ones.
