Monkstown Bay SC, Cork, Ireland, 30/31 October 2004
From Rob Napier's UK Circular

Monkstown Bay SC probably has as big an active fleet of 505s as any club
in the British Isles, and there was a good turnout for the Irish/British
open event over the weekend 30/31 October. This was despite the damaging
storms earlier in the week, with high tides nearly a metre higher than
predicted that completely flooded the dinghy park and the water front,
and land-water floods that cut off the roads to Monkstown for 24 hours.
The Irish hospitality started in the bar when members of the UK teams
started to arrive on Friday evening, and continued throughout the
weekend. Some of us were put up in members' homes on Friday night, and
Saturday started in leasurely style with a full home-made Irish
breakfast - at 11:00 am.

The forecast for Sunday was for light winds, so three races were sailed
on Saturday afternoon. On the quayside at Monkstown it was a firm force
3, but there were significant holes and shifts in the race area behind
Cooleen and Black Point. The tide was also somewhat odd, the excessive
land water holding back the main flood tide. In races one and two, Ian
Pinnell and Steve Hunt kept clear of the argie-bargie at the start and
scored two wins. Behind them the racing was close, with places 2, 3,
4 and 5 of race one exactly reversed in race two, with the likelyhood
(if Sunday's forecast was to be believed) of race three being the
decider for the minor places. This time it was the young local aces
Colin Barry and Charles Dwyer who broke away at the start and held the
lead at every mark from Steve Hunt, who had taken over the helm from Ian
Pinnell.

As predicted, there was virtually no wind on Sunday, and racing was
abandoned. This left Barry and Dwyer second overall - a remarkable
achievement in an oldish borrowed boat, hastily set up with
a second-hand 6m spinnaker bought just before the race.

Our thanks to all the club members for their hospitality and fun, and
especially the Commodore, Kieran O'Leary, for all the organising and
shuttle services to/from the airport; David Barry and the race
management and rescue teams for the excellent racing; and Mike O'Brien
- I will not forget the 50-knot speedboat ride to Cobh for curry supper
on Saturday evening!

Question: How do you break your forestay by hitting a mark of the
course? Chris Thorne found the answer: When the mark is a navigation
post with a protruding access platform 15 or 20 feet up above the water.

