European Championships 2008 – Revised Result
Details
Created: Tuesday, 12 May 2009 18:57
Written by Simon Lake

At the Pre- Worlds / European Championships held at Palermo, Italy last
November the 1st and 2nd place finishers in the overall results were
Ethan Bixby / Erik Boothe USA (7 points) and Jens Findel / Johannes
Tellen GER (10 points).

The title of European Champion and the European Championship Trophy was
awarded to Jens and Johannes based on the assumption that a Non-European
resident was ineligible to be declared the winner.

This outcome has been challenged and the I.E.C. referred the matter to
the Chairman of ISAF Rules Committee for a ruling.

After due scrutiny of the Class Rules, the Notice of Race and the
Sailing Instructions, the ruling has determined that the event was an
“Open” event with the lowest point scorer able to be declared the
winner.

As a result of this ruling, Ethan Bixby and Erik Boothe have been
declared “2008 European Champions” and the Class Records have been
amended accordingly.

International Executive Committee, 12th May, 2009

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There is a lesson to be learned for the future planning of National,
Regional or International events from this experience.

If any event is to be restricted in any way – any restrictions MUST be
incorporated in the Notice of Race.

From my perspective as International President – I would advise against
any such restrictions.

We are an International Class trying to encourage competition and
attendance between Nations and Continents by as many Members, at as many
events as possible.

It is my view that any Member of the International Association should be
eligible to win any event for which his/her Entry Fee is accepted or
he/she is qualified to enter.

But - If for any Local, Regional or National reason there is a desire to
ensure that Trophies do not leave a Region / Country or for any other
desired restriction, it is essential that the Notice of Race advises any
potential entrants accordingly.



“Pip” Pearson - President
