https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/143958/505-worlds-in-Sicily

505 Worlds at Mondello, Palermo, Sicily
by Simon Reffold 24 Oct 2008 12:31 BST
9-16 October 2008


505 Worlds at Mondello, Palermo, Sicily by Simon Reffold 24 Oct 2008 12:31 BST
9-16 October 2008 Action from the 505 worlds in Mondello, Sicily © Vincenzo
Baglione / 505 Worlds 2008Action from the 505 worlds in Mondello, Sicily ©
Vincenzo Baglione / 505 Worlds 2008Action from the 505 worlds in Mondello,
Sicily © Vincenzo Baglione / 505 Worlds 2008 After the hooter on the start boat
(which coincidentally sounds exactly like the sick horn of a 1966 Fiat 500)
sounded thrice, signalling the cancellation of race seven of the 505 Worlds,
the British team of Ian Pinnell and Carl Gibbon, (Hayling Island Sailing Club),
threw their hands up in glee - then Gibbon promptly chucked Pinnell in the
Mediterranean to celebrate their World Championship victory.

This has been a tough series for all involved - with winds in Mondello, Sicily,
rarely reaching above six knots and many races were run with crews folded and
contorted to leeward. Today's highlight (apart from Pinnell's victory) during
the extensive on-water delay, was a game of boat Cricket using a tennis ball
and paddle and involving most of the 14 strong Australian contingent and the
popular bikini clad German girl's crew.

It would be true to say that things here in Sicily don't exactly run at a
blistering pace. There are few clocks visible, people don't wear watches and
things tend to be measured in geological time rather than the more common
hours, minutes and seconds. That all being said, its pretty easy to forget the
troubles of the world here in Mondello where the azure Mediterranean challenges
even the most literate to conjur accurate superlatives and the sun worshipping
locals' easy, relaxed nature is infectious. Except when you want something
done... but otherwise the locals complete lack of stress is only matched by the
tranquil ocean's windless beauty.

Laid back would also best describe Ian 'Nellie' Pinnell's demeanour. Nellie has
won numerous world titles in other classes, but counts this 505 Worlds as his
greatest triumph. And for Nellie, it was never really in doubt. His results
have been consistent - currently his worst race is a ninth with all the other
results in the top four. Truly remarkable and completely unique in this series.

From the outset, with a win in the first race, a second in the second then a
second and fourth the next day he sprinted to an early and substantial lead
where others weren't nearly as consistent. He never really looked in doubt, but
when questioned after racing he took it all within his stride, with a typically
casual approach, and simply said he'd... 'had a good day and got a bit lucky'.
Day after day after day.

When we talked to Ian after the non-race final day, he was enjoying a foaming
Sicilian Birra, he had this to say about the regatta; 'Well, obviously I am
really happy. I guess the biggest thing for us was we were able to be in the
right place most of the time and got solid results, where the other boats were
a bit up and down. It was our time I guess.

'My crew Carl has been tremendous - the feedback I get from him is invaluable
and I don't think any one got past us downwind, he really keeps the boat fast
no matter what the conditions.'

Mixed results is right - all of the top boats are carrying some really big
numbers, with the series only going to a maximum of seven races there is only
one drop which has put the noses out of many boats that were scored DNF on the
second day. More than 80 boats didn't finish within the time limit (did we say
it was light here?) of race three. But still as they say, the cream rises and
there is no doubt that the top 10 have earned their results.

---------------------

https://www.sail-world.com/Australia/Pinnell-and-Gibbon-are-505-World-Champions/-49845

Pinnell and Gibbon are 505 World Champions
by Simon Reffold on 17 Oct 2008

After the hooter on the start boat (which coincidentally sounds exactly
like the sick horn of a 1966 Fiat 500) sounded thrice, signalling the
cancellation of race seven of the 505 Worlds, the British team of Ian
Pinnell and Carl Gibbon, (Hayling Island Sailing Club), threw their
hands up in glee - then Gibbon promptly chucked Pinnell in the
Mediterranean to celebrate their World Championship victory.

This has been a tough series for all involved - with winds in Mondello,
Sicily, rarely reaching above six knots and many races were run with
crews folded and contorted to leeward. Today's highlight (apart from
Pinnell's victory) during the extensive on-water delay, was a game of
boat Cricket using a tennis ball and paddle and involving most of the 14
strong Australian contingent and the popular bikini clad German girl's
crew.

There is still one race to go tomorrow and that will decide the minor
places - with weather forecasts differing dramatically, its hard to know
for sure what the outcome will be.

But so far the perennial runner up, and previous World Champion, Howie
Hamlin and his crew Andy Zinn from Newport Beach, California look pretty
good in second. They are closely followed by another previous World
Champion Wolfgang Hunger and Julien Kliener (Germany) and the Bojsen
Moller brothers from Denmark. Rounding out the top five are the
immediate past World Champions Jan Saugmann and Morten Ramsbeck, also
from Denmark.

It would be true to say that things here in Sicily don't exactly run at
a blistering pace. There are few clocks visible, people don't wear
watches and things tend to be measured in geological time rather than
the more common hours, minutes and seconds. That all being said, its
pretty easy to forget the troubles of the world here in Mondello where
the azure Mediterranean challenges even the most literate to conjur
accurate superlatives and the sun worshipping locals' easy, relaxed
nature is infectious. Except when you want something done... but
otherwise the locals complete lack of stress is only matched by the
tranquil ocean's windless beauty.

Laid back would also best describe Ian 'Nellie' Pinnell's demeanour.
Nellie has won numerous Worlds in other classes, but counts this 505
Worlds as his greatest triumph. And for Nellie, it was never really in
doubt. His results have been consistent - currently his worst race is
a ninth with all the other results in the top four. Truly remarkable and
completely unique in this series.

From the outset, with a win in the first race, a second in the second
then a second and fourth the next day he sprinted to an early and
substantial lead where others weren't nearly as consistent. He never
really looked in doubt, but when questioned after racing he took it all
within his stride, with a typically casual approach, and simply said
he'd... 'had a good day and got a bit lucky'. Day after day after day.

When we talked to Ian after the non-race today, he was enjoying
a foaming Sicilian Birra, he had this to say about the regatta; 'Well,
obviously I am really happy. I guess the biggest thing for us was we
were able to be in the right place most of the time and got solid
results, where the other boats were a bit up and down. It was our time
I guess.

'My crew Carl has been tremendous - the feedback I get from him is
invaluable and I don't think any one got past us downwind, he really
keeps the boat fast no matter what the conditions.'

Mixed results is right - all of the top boats are carrying some really
big numbers, with the series only going to a maximum of seven races
there is only one drop which has put the noses out of many boats that
were scored DNF on the second day. More than 80 boats didn't finish
within the time limit (did we say it was light here?) of race three. But
still as they say, the cream rises and there is no doubt that the top 10
have earned their results.


