https://www.sailweb.co.uk/2025/06/29/505-uk-open-nationals-michael-sims-and-carl-gibbon-are-2025-champions/


----------------

https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/287675/505-UK-Nationals-at-Weymouth

505 UK National Championships 2025 at Weymouth & Portland Sailing Academy
by Dougal Henshall 3 Jul 18:38 BST
26-28 June 2025

It is incredible to think that it is just three short years (a mere blip
in a class with such a legacy as that enjoyed by the 5o5 fleet) since
the Class last gathered at the Weymouth & Portland National Sailing
Academy. Yet in that three-year period so much has changed, ashore, in
the way the Academy is being run in a more club like, welcoming manner
and out afloat, in the way new partnerships have blossomed, always with
an eye turned towards success.

Three years on and there was another big change, as back then the
Nationals had been dogged by dawn to dusk sunshine but hardly a breath
of wind, conditions that keep the fleet ashore for ages drinking cold
beers and even when the boats did get afloat, it was for races held
inside the Harbour in breezes that never topped 8kt. From the first
forecasts more than a fortnight out, it was clear that 2025 would be at
the other end of the scale and the Met Office team had got this one spot
on as the Thursday dawned to a brisk SW breeze.

These are very much the prevailing conditions as Weymouth, which can
give rise to a little bit of false confidence, with the spinnaker run
from the Academy slip down to the gap in the Harbour Wall being brisk
and exciting, but manageable. Then there's another half mile to get to
the top of the course, where conditions are still fun and benign. Get
further on across the bay to where the Committee Boat was stationed for
the start and thing were very different, as the sea state was now steep
and challenging whilst the wind had developed a malicious bite. None of
this seemed to worry the visiting US teams, who sail in conditions
easily as tough as this every Tuesday afternoon.

If there was a surprise (though not to those who know) it was that the
veteran Howie Hamlin and crew Andy Zinn who powered around at the head
of the fleet to take both bullets. Another of the visiting foreign boats
would also find the conditions reminded the helm of home as Australian
Michael Quirk, crewed by Tim Needham would be the only other boat to
score two podium places on the day. Others had a less encouraging, with
one well known multi-world championship winning helm finding himself in
rather than on the water, but he can be forgiven as it was one of those
sorts of days.


Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn, second overall - 505 UK National
Championships at Weymouth - photo © Dougal Henshall The top of the fleet
at the 5o5 Nationals was full of championship winning talent, yet Howie
Hamlin showed how sailing can be remarkably non-ageist by rolling back
the years, even on the most physically demanding of opening days out on
Weymouth Bay - 505 UK National Championships at Weymouth - photo
© Dougal Henshall Day 2 wasn't quite as windy but was still windy enough
to have rigs fully raked aft with gusts that were into the upper mid-20
kt territory. After posting his note of intent with a second place in
Race 2, Michael Sims and Carl Gibbon (Carsington and Burton SCs) now
posted an incredible 2,1,1 scoreline, the only boat to get all podium
places on the day. Michael Quirk nearly did so with a 1,2,4 while Howie
and Andy stayed in the hunt with a pair of 3s and a 4th place.

This left the event finely balanced between the three front runners
going in to the Saturday, when another three races were scheduled. This
time the issue wouldn't be about the wind strength, which was officially
still brisk, but the visibility which never got above 'poor'. Most radio
comms between the Committee Boat and windward mark boat focus on the
wind strength and direction, but now it was far more a case of "can you
see me Moriarty" as ever thicker banks of sea mist rolled in across the
bay.

Michael and Carl looked to be putting a stranglehold on the event when
they took Race 6, their third win in a row with Howie scoring another
second place. The leaders then suffered an uncharacteristic stumble with
a 12th place, whilst the American pair capitalised on the moment to take
the win.

Normal service was restored in Race 8 as Michale and Carl took their
fourth victory but the winners for the day would Howie and Andy who in
scoring a pair of seconds and a win would draw level on points with the
British leaders. Equally consistent on this difficult day would be
Nathan Batchelor/Sam Pascoe and Mike Holt/Reeve Dunn who tried to close
the gap to third placed Michale Quirk &Tim Needham, so everything would
be 'up for grabs' on the final day.

Mention should also be made of the two boats competing in the classic
division, where one time crew Phil Brown (who??) and Dawn Brown, sailing
in one of the boats that had brought Phil and Peter Colclough so many
fantastic results battled around in conditions that were far from
favourable to them. The other classic boat was one that had its own
great story to tell, having been purchased just a couple of weeks
earlier for the exorbitant sum of £150. No matter, it was out there in
the Bay and sailing, which has to be something of a record in terms of
'amount of bangs for your buck'!


Phil and Dawn Brown, Classic fleet winners - 505 UK National
Championships at Weymouth - photo © Dougal Henshall In conditions that
were far from favourable to them, Phil and Dawn Brown stuck to the task
of being the best of the 'older' boats. Phil's return to the fleet is
a big plus point for the 5o5 Class as it highlights that there's a place
for both the boats and the sailors of yesteryear, with the same amount
of fun to be had at any point in the fleet! - 505 UK National
Championships at Weymouth - photo © Dougal Henshall It also managed to
deliver one of the scares of the weekend, when the rudder came off (not
for the first time). Helm Charlie Thorne, another sailor that lives the
line of 'once a FiveO sailor, always a FiveO sailor' swam around to the
transom to reattach the blade, only for the boat to 'turtle' on top of
him, trapping his body against the transom bar. It was a decidedly
sticky moment until a bit of brute force from crew and RIB team pulled
him free, thankfully the boat at least was okay!

Sadly, after three full days of classic 5o5 sailing in breeze, with all
of the top places still up for grabs, Sunday dawned to a dreary, misty
morning with near zero wind. Bringing the media boat around from
Weymouth was interesting as although there was very little wind in the
Harbour there was even less out in the bay.

The Supernova fleet wisely decided to pull the plug early, their event
already had a clear winner but with so much at stake the pressure was on
to get at least one more race in.

It wasn't to be, the day was binned leaving Michael Sims and Carl Gibbon
level with points with Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn but ahead in the
standings on countback. Third place would go to Michael Quirk, with
Nathan Batchelor and Sam Pascoe fourth. Congratulations also go to Phil
and Dawn Brown for showing what can be done in an older boat as they
took the Classic prize.

Whilst the 5o5 scene, which is heavily targeted towards the
International events, rolls on with Kiel Week to come (plus a Europeans
late in the year in Spain) the domestic focus now has to be on next
year, when the National Championships will be the warm up event for the
following Worlds. Already boats are being snapped up and new
partnerships formed, as this will be one of those bucket list 'must do'
events.
