
Michael Renda 
nieprzeczytany, 8 lis 2010, 03:43:33 do 505 USA East Coast
 

Hampton Yacht Club’s annual Fall Fling typically provides a relatively warm
closing for the East Coast 5o5 season. This year, however, was a bit chillier
than normal, as sailors were greeted by temperatures in the mid-50s and strong
breezes. Both days featured plenty of sun and the great flat water that Hampton
is known for. Racing was held out in the flats along with Lightnings, J24s, and
a Laser. Courses were generally 3-lap windward-leewards with beats less than a
mile. A strong current on the rightside of the course in the afternoon and lots
of puffs and small shifts resulted in competitive and tactic-oriented racing.
Breezes on Saturday peaked around 18, and Sunday featured gusts around 25
knots, keeping the fleet awake.

 

Big thanks go out to Tyler, Henry, and the rest of the Hampton fleet for
hosting a great event. The RC put on a great show, managing multiple fleets and
a fair bit of capsizing.

 

Some highlights:

* Tyler Moore and Russ Miller led the pack most of the weekend, winning all the
races that they finished. They retired early in the final race after breaking a
spinnaker-pole-related line.

* Dustin Romey failed to bring some warm weather up from Puerto Rico but still
did a bang-up job with Henry Amthor.

* Olav Schluter and Michael Renda reunited following their SanFran campaign;
thankfully the wind showed up for them. Nobody saw them capsize on the finish
line in the 6th race.

* Gabe Watson continues to show that he is one of the best crews under 20, with
strong performance in all races – Sunday’s DNFs were all due to breakdowns. Dr.
Watson has high hopes for his winter repair schedule.

* Jim Englert showed some good speed in his re-finished Waterat; it’s good to
see him back in the fleet.

* Saturday night featured a dinner a local Hampton hotspot followed by an
evening of gawking at Henry’s new bare Rondar hull. Fortunately Dustin had
hidden all the drills, or otherwise the fleet would have rigged Henry’s boat
all in one night.

* JB Turney was in-town Saturday night to pick up his new bare Rondar.

* Jesse Falsone successfully mowed his lawn and cleaned out the garage. Macy
Nelson caught up on missed episodes of The Wire, Jersey Shore, and Mad Men.
