International 505 Class

Carl-Fredrik Fock/Johan Barne, SWE, winners of Euro Cup 4 and the
Swedish Nationals

After two days with light to moderate wind, the final day was sailed in
17-25 knots, outside Råå in Sweden. Gorgeous planning conditions!

Carl Fredrik Fock/Johan Barne, SWE, won the first two races and decided
to stay ashore in the last, since they had already won the regatta.
Carl-Fredrik Fock is a former European Champion and World ranking leader
in 470 and Johan Barne has a second place in the 505 Worlds 2003 with
Krister Bergström as well as two Swedish Nationals titles. So, the
merits of the 2025 Swedish champions and Euro Cup 4 winners are solid.

Fabiola and Michael Wonterghem, DEN, won the last race, lifting them to
fifth place. Fourth place went to Jens Biederer/Thomas Wasilewski, GER,
while the podium was all Swedish. After Barne/Fock, in second place
Malin Broberg/Johan Röök, and in third place Peter Bökmark/Martin
Persson.

A well-organized regatta by Råå Dinghy Club, great camaraderie ashore,
and very nice sailing!

All results on: https://niklasnorden.com/rjk/SM505.htm

Photos: Hanseric Orre, more photos from him on:
https://photos.app.goo.gl/QkovYCN96i1MsTzx5

-------------------------------

https://www.sail-world.com/news/288964/505-Euro-Cup-4-and-Swedish-Nationals

505 Euro Cup 4 and Swedish Nationals at Råå, Sweden
by Per-Eric Törnström, Swedish 505 Association 12 Aug 05:32 UTC
8-10 August 2025

Carl-Fredrik Fock & Johan Barne take the win at Råå

The Swedish Nationals were this year also the final leg of the 505 Euro
Cup series. The regatta was held 8th - 10th of August in Råå, situated
on the west coast of Skåne, Sweden. 22 teams from Sweden, Denmark and
Germany participated.

Light breeze, slowly increasing from 6 to 12 knots, with 1 knot of
current on day 1 made everybody seek less current, close to the shore.
The racing was tight and there were many shifts in the positions. Peter
Bökmark/Martin Persson, SWE, managed to take a lead late in the first
race and won it, with Fock/Barne second. Malin Broberg/Johan Röök, SWE,
won the second race. After a great start they could dominate the fleet.
Fock/Barne secured another second. In the third race Fock/Barne took
control early and won quite comfortably.

Day two came with less wind, many small shifts and different pressure
over the course, i.e. tricky conditions. Broberg/Röök once again came
out of the gate in a good position in race 4 and kept their lead.
Fock/Barne were climbing in the fleet, after a less fortunate start but
had to accept a new second place. Race 5 became thrilling as the wind
dropped. At the same time, the eight first boats arrived at the last
rounding. The leaders just before the rounding became 8th! Fock/Barne
managed to find a track, catch the wind, and win the race. Fabiola and
Michael Wonterghem, DEN, were second.


After two days with light wind, the final day was sailed in 17-25 knots
and gorgeous planning conditions! Carl Fredrik Fock/Johan Barne, SWE,
won race 6 and 7, but they had to fight for it. Broberg/Röök were second
in race 6 and Jens Biederer/Thomas Wasilewski, GER, was second in race
7. Fock/Barne decided to finish the day after two races, since they had
already won the regatta. In the last race the daughter and father-team
Wonterghem showed great performance and won clearly.

The merits of the 2025 Swedish champions and Euro Cup 4 winners are
solid. Carl-Fredrik Fock is a former 470 European Champion and was also
World ranking leader in 470. Johan Barne has a second place in the 505
Worlds 2003 with Krister Bergström as well as two Swedish Nationals
titles. They teamed in the 505 just before the Worlds 2024 and they try
to sail 505 as often as the can, but since both are professional
sailors, it is hard to get time enough together.

The Wonterghem victory in the last race lifted them to fifth place.
Fourth place went to Biederer/Wasilewski, GER, while the podium was all
Swedish. Barne/Fock clear winners, in second place Malin Broberg/Johan
Röök and in third, Peter Bökmark/Martin Persson.

A well organised regatta by Råå Dinghy Club, great camaraderie ashore
and very nice sailing!

