Kingston No Frills Regatta
August 7-8, 1999
Kingston Yacht Club, Kingston, ON
By Chris Gillies

Seven boats (3 local) went out for the first Kingston No Frills Regatta. With a
humane start time of 11:00 people could drift in on Saturday morning and still
make it to the first race. Even the wind helped those who talked too much while
rigging, as racing was delayed by an hour. However, Dave Adams looked out and
said, "We're going out" and wouldn't you know it, the wind arrived as their
boat hit the water. However, this early start hurt Deb (Ashby) and Dave as they
were then late at the first start because they were training so hard. Jeff Boyd
then got called in to rectify a problem at home and in 8 knots of breeze this
left it wide open for John Bryant and Ron Hughes to snag a win.

Racing for the whole day was very close, and if you blinked, boats were by you.
We pulled off 6 races with the first repeat winner only occurring in the 5th
race. Everyone showed great speed at points and frequently the positions were
only decided after the final jibe on the Gold Cup courses. In almost every
race, by the time the leader had finished and dropped the chute the last place
boat was already crossing the line. The Race Committee was great (sponsored by
the KYC Shark fleet), as they quickly identified the next rabbit and fired off
the next starting sequence. Winds during the day ranged from 8-14 knots with
one windward leg where it dropped to 2-3 with lots of lumps (slow for this
author as we moved from 1st to 4th on one leg). At the end of the day Jeff Boyd
& Justin Kitney showed their dominance and had pulled to the front of the fleet
with John & Ron holding on to second place. Everyone then returned to Florence
and Jeff's place to eat lasagna, drink beer and celebrate Jeff's birthday, and
talk about the close racing.

Day two, dawned raining with light winds, and it was not hard to keep the RC on
the patio drinking coffee instead of sending us out. By 11:00 the rain had
cleared up and we were settling in for a 10 knot North wind (shift city). Jeff
& Justin showed their smarts by reading the winds and playing the shifts much
better that everyone, getting 3 bullets. John & Ron had obviously left their
minds elsewhere and sailed backwards in the fleet, ending up 4th for the
regatta. Coming from 4th to finish 2nd in the event were John Curtis and Bob
Turcke, the latest Kingston team to join 505 sailing. Unfortunately, while
training after the regatta, they lost a forestay and broke their mast, but they
will be ready for CORK. The final race had Deb and Dave, sailing the only
non-super boat in the fleet, leading around the windward and jibe marks.
Unfortunately their "never say die" attitude hurt them on the second reach as
the wind freshened and veered, forcing them (and most of the rest of the fleet)
very low. Clarissa Bush & Chris Gillies and Jeff & Justin made out big time by
not flying their kites and moved from second last and last, to second and first
respectively by the leeward mark. Despite this turnaround, Deb & Dave were
quite pleased; Dave was heard in the parking lot saying they didn’t know where
to go next, without the fleet to show them the way.

During the prize giving a new trophy was deeded to the event, so I would guess
the Kingston "No Frills" will become an annual event. Bob Turcke’s Grandfather
(a Laser sailor from way back) had a trophy that dates back many years ago
(first awarded in 1967), which he offered to the fleet for this event. (He said
the 505 was the boat he always wanted to sail). Thanks very much. Bob will be
giving a more detailed history on this shortly.

Thanks to the Yates and Boyds, the KYC Shark fleet and all the sponsors for
their support in putting on this event.

