1999 Ontario 505 Championships Regatta Report July 17-18, 1999
St James Town Sailing Club & Outer Harbour Centreboard Club Toronto, ON
By Angus Ross

With Indy cars roaring round the track as background music, 8 boats, including
3 out-of-towners, competed in the Ontario Championships under variable (but
hot) weather conditions. Saturday ranged from marginal to flat-out trapezing
(and several capsizes) while Sunday was light winds to marginal trapezing on
the close reach. Completing 9 races isn't bad for a two-day mid-July regatta
and Saturday was cut short by a thunderstorm which gave us a great reach back
to the club as we raced the lightning in to shore.

The first day saw 5 close races with 3 different winners on the short-course
multiple triangles and individual battles being waged right down through the
fleet. Even the older Toronto boats were mixing it up with the best of them.
The short courses are great for keeping the fleet together and encouraging the
newer members. The disadvantage is a capsize can put you right out of it, as
Renka and Adam found in the fourth race. Rob Braden and Dave Adams timed it
much better in the same race, capsizing as they crossed the finish in second
place.

Sunday was lighter winds but we had the variety of an America's Cup course in
one race, set by a sadistic New Zealander on committee who obviously felt that
if the committee were sweltering, then the sailors should share the pain! We
did!! The championship came down to the last race of the regatta . A win for
Ashby/Hoffman would have put them in 1st overall but the wily veteran team of
Geoff Fernie and his "ringer" crew of Mike Agrell showed that even an older
boat can win with good teamwork as they snatched not only a victory but also
third overall. (Geoff's crew on day one - Phil Wilcox - had never sailed before
but took to it like a lobster-fisherman to water!)

Skippers and crews of the first three boats received beautiful hand-made wooden
half-hull models of stylised 505's carved by Klinger, a member of J-town. Many
thanks to St Jamestown SC and the Outer Harbour Centreboard Club for hosting
the regatta (and feeding us).

Angus (aross@soremagrp.com)
