https://505news.co.uk/epic-hayling-bay-conditions-for-the-final-leg-of-the-505-euro-cup-2021/

October 7th, 2021


Epic Hayling Bay Conditions for UK Euro Cup

The 505 Class returned to Hayling Island for the fourth and final leg of
our 2021 Euro Cup. Special thanks must go to the overseas visitors from
Ireland, France, Germany and Australia who braved the current challenges
and red tape of international travel to compete against some of the best
teams in the UK.

We shared the venue with the Fireball Class National Championship which
seemed to work out well and certainly kept the bar full each night.

Hayling Island Sailing Club made us extremely welcome with a Commodore’s
Reception on the first night where Commodore Andy Partington reminded us
all what a history Hayling has with both the 505 and Fireball Classes
having hosted so many Euro Cup, National and World Championships for
each class over the years.

We had a couple of days blown off but the races that did take place were
in Hayling Bay under sunny skies, with plenty of waves and strong winds
– perfect 505 conditions – enough to keep big grins in the bar each
night. There were plenty of wipeouts from front runners and back markers
alike to keep the talk and bar karate going long into the night.

The race team did a great job to give us 5 races in the bay over what
were some really quite daunting forecasts and sea states.

The final lap on Sunday was epic as the forecast gale started to make
its presence felt a couple of hours earlier than expected. We finished
the day’s sailing with a screaming mile long two sail reach back into
the harbour.

Here is a short clip of the day’s racing: https://youtu.be/QsoFO0nSTv8
complied by Christophe Favreau

There are loads more fantastic pictures of the event taken by Christophe
here: https://www.christophefavreau.com/portfolio/G0000L2n1E8D6jJA

European Champions Roger Gilbert and Ben McGrane from Netley won with
Tynemouth’s Nathan Batchelor and Sam Pascoe second and Hayling’s Ian
Pinnell and Tom Pickles solid in third.

Multiple Olympic medalists Stu Bithell and Simon Hiscocks borrowed the
UK Class Association boat for the event and really enjoyed themselves.
Tokyo 49er Gold Medallist Stu Bithell commented “That was my first time
in a 505 and it didn’t disappoint. It was fast and great fun in the
waves.”

Please visit https://www.int505.org/ for more info on 505 racing around
the world.

All images were taken by Christophe Favreau
https://www.christophefavreau.com


