1997 International 505 Worlds Report
-Allan Johnson (probably biased misleading reporting, but Mike Martin gave me this assignment)
Reprinted from the Fall 1997 Tank Talk

The 1997 505 World Championship was held at Gilleleje Sejlklub, August 10-21,
1997 in Gilleleje Denmark. Gilleleje is a quiet fishing village about an hour
north of Copenhagen on the Kattegat sea. Nature, bikes and pedestrians rule
this part of the world, with only one stop light in town. An unhurried life
with nice people who welcome visitors to their special locale. The weather was
absolutely stunning! We were warned to bring drysuits, etc. My helm never even
wore a wetsuit on the water, I never wore a sweatshirt off the water.
Unfortunately this made for a light air regatta but most of the competitors
were stunned by the 85 degree days and 70 degree water.

I guess I should get to the racing part of the story, but I learned that a
World's is much more than a regatta. We were in Denmark for two weeks and it
was rad! A few other details worth mentioning: all of the competitors stayed in
the Gilleleje Holiday Center, a sprawling resort in the trees with gorgeous
views of the ocean. There were soccer fields (The Brits beat the Aussies and
Germans; The Aussies beat the Germans) tennis courts, swimming pools (The
Aussies beat the Brits at Water Polo) and cool six person houses complete with
all the amenities. The center was about 3 kilometers from the Sailing club,
which at first was a drag, but then everyone discovered rental bikes. And the
ride to town and the club was on the ridge overlooking the sea! Most of this
was in the information packet, but they could not describe how cool it would
be. Mike Mills kept saying

"This is just like college. We live in dorms, we all have bikes, we sail all
day, and party at night."

I must thank the regatta Sponsor, Tuborg Beer! Free beer and lunch after
everyday of racing. And last but not least: In the summer in Denmark, people
don't wear clothes! Can I be politically correct about this? No, I don't think
so....There were topless chicks everywhere! On shore postponements were cheered
by the Americans and we would go for long walks down the beach enjoying the
sight seeing.

On one particular day, two beautiful young girls were sunbathing topless
virtually in the boat park. Unbelievable! This free mentality struck the
competitors as well. Need to change into your sailing gear? No problem, drop
trousers and change right there, next to your boat. Denmark was Rad!

There was a pre-worlds on August 10,11,12. Two races a day in light air, no
races over ten knots, many in a fluky 5 knot southerly. Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle
almost won this regatta but placed second to the very fast Danish team of Hans
Jorgen Riber/Adam Malling. Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin were third and enjoyed a
nice meal in town for their efforts. The USA team was looking strong with Ali
Meller/Allan Johnson in eighth, Macy Nelson/Mike Mills in 14th and Terry
Neff/Bill Smith in 22nd. But no one really knew what the World's would be like,
since this was a light air flukefest and the cool guys like Team Sweden
(Krister Bergström 4 time World Champ sailing with Thomas Moss and Ebbe Rosén
sailing with Olle Wenrup) blew off several races.

Measurement of the eighty boats followed with two days of stress, sail cutting,
boatwork, or sightseeing (Unbelievable) in Sweden depending on your program. I
won't bore you with the details, ask the Aussies about Sweden.

Race one of the worlds was won by the fast Danes Riber/Malling. Bergström/Moss
were second. Mark Upton-Brown/Ian Mitchell third. Top Americans were
Meller/Johnson in 8th. Current [1996]World Champions Paul Towers/Dan Johnson
were 43rd. This was a tough fleet.

Race two and Hamlin/Martin take over, winning the race in a duel with
Upton-Brown/Mitchell. Ebbe Rosén/Olle Wenrup finish fourth. These three teams
will see a lot of each other in the ensuing days as Rosen/Wenrup, Hamlin/Martin
start well and sail consistently to always be in the top group with
Upton-Brown/Mitchell charging up through the fleet.

The attempted start of Race three will be talked about for some time. It was
very light air, difficult to maneuver and a suspect decision to try starting
the race. The rabbit was Tom Bojland/Anders Friis. I don't have all of the
details, but the facts remain that Hamlin/Martin hit or were hit by the guard
launch. The penalty is immediate DSQ. There were several protests regarding the
situation: 1) Hamlin/Martin were forced into the situation by a boat without
rights. 2) The race should not have been started. 3)They were a pack of boats
protesting each other. In the end the RC decided it should not have attempted
the race, and the contact was unavoidable and minor. No DSQ's rendered.

When Race three is restarted in the late afternoon in a nice ten knot easterly,
Hamlin/Martin lead at all marks and win convincingly. They are protested by the
rabbit Tom Bojland, but the results stand. Former World Champ Ian Barker with
Paul Young finish second. Wolfgang Hunger [twice 470 World Champion] and Holger
Jess finish third. Hamlin/Martin are winning the regatta with a 9,1,1.

Race 4 is abandoned with no wind in the forecast. The competitors cheer after
three light air races. Under an amendment to the 505 class rules, most sailors
think this will now be a 6 race series instead of seven. Lots of people go to
Sweden, Copenhagen or the beach.

When Race 4 is sailed, it is a battle between the eventual top four boats, with
Rosen/Wenrup winning, Upton-Brown/Mitchell second, Hamlin/Martin third,
Hunger/Jess 4th and (this is not a typo) Meller/Johnson 5th.

On the second to last day of the regatta there are grumblings in the boat park
that the RC will attempt two races that day in the effort to get a 7 race
series. This is interpreted by the class officers as a breach of the 505 class
rules and they attempt to reason with the RC to hold only one race.

The RC believes that Race 4 ( or whatever number it is now, eventually race 6)
was not abandoned but postponed and it is their right to run it. Sailors leave
the boat park not knowing how many races will be sailed that day. [ ]

Race 5 is won by Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle, coming back from a disappointing 18th
in race 4. Finishing second is Hunger/Jess, in third is Rosen/Wenrup, 4th goes
to Hamlin/Martin and in 5th Meller/Johnson. Upton-Brown/Mitchell sail their
throwout 10th. At this time it is any one of four teams regatta to win or lose.
A good time to go ashore and plan the strategy for tomorrow, but the RC states
that race 6 will start at 4:00 p.m. The weary competitors sail slowly downwind.
Only one boat puts their chute up.

At the start of Race 6 the breeze is on. Well, maybe not on, but the best we
have seen at around ten to 12 knots. Towers/Johnson show that this is their
condition, sailing well and winning the race easily. They will end up posting
four scores in the 40's for the regatta. This is a tough fleet.

In second is Upton-Brown/Mitchell and third is Bergström/Moss. Rosen/Wenrup and
Hamlin/Martin finish 9th and 10th respectively putting Upton-Brown/Mitchell in
the lead for the title. Meller/Johnson protest the RC for running the race
despite finishing 8th. Their argument is that it was sailed not in accordance
with the class rules. Nelson/Mills have a protest requesting redress, as they
were fouled at the start. Hamlin/Martin have a protest against a German team.
Ian Barker is heard to say "Are all of the Americans protesting because of too
much wind??" All protests are dismissed. The sailors have been on the water for
more than eight hours. Race seven will start at 10:00 am the next morning.

Race Seven begins in a 12 knot and building southerly, the first real breeze we
have seen. It is either the Swedes, the Brits, or the Americans regatta to win.
Hamlin/Martin are the rabbit. The race is sailed rather close to shore with (as
it turned out) big righties with velocity coming from the shore. The early
gaters get hosed, the rabbit should have been golden, but I'm guessing
Hamlin/Martin chose to be conservative and go to the middle rather than
continue to the shore. Early on in the race it is looking good for Rosen/Wenrup
as they are in the top group and Upton-Brown/Mitchell and Hamlin/Martin are in
the teens. As the race progresses, it is Bergström/Moss in the lead with
Rosen/Wenrup on their heels. These Swedish teams keep it going for the rest of
the race finishing 1st and 2nd respectively. If Rosen/Wenrup had won the race,
or their fellow countryman had let them through, they would be world champions.
As it turned out they ended up second with Upton-Brown/Mitchell's 7th place
giving them the victory, with Hamlin/Martin's 9th securing them third.

Prize presentation was held at Kronburg Castle, the inspiration for
Shakespeare's Hamlet, and the house of Danish nobility. The 5o5ers had the
whole castle to themselves and prizes were handed out in this great huge hall
by none other than the great Paul Elvstrom.

-------------------------------

1997 505 Worlds Report
Updated November 25, 1997

The 505 Class had another successful World Championship, this time at
the Gilleleje Sailing Club, in the small fishing and resort town of
Gilleleje, about 50 km north of Copenhagen. A three day pre-worlds was
held August 10-12, followed by two days for measurement and preparation.
The 7 race World Championship was the 15-21 of August. Seventy-nine
teams of 505 Sailors representing 11 countries participated.

A large stationary high over most of Europe made the Gilleleje area
rather hotter than expected, and kept the wind light for most of the two
events, quite unlike what organizers and many competitors were expecting
(the swimming and hanging out at the beach were great, though). I never
wore a wetsuit. There was a noticeable current at times.

The pre-worlds races were mostly sitting on the seat tank or marginal
trapezing. There were two races a day with Worlds courses though with
shorter legs. Much of the fleet goes the same speed in those conditions,
so first beats and first roundings were crowded, with good starts,
hitting the shifts and big fleet management skills very important. The
Danish team of Hans Jorgen Riber/Adam Malling sailed very consistently
in the conditions to win the event. They had excellent speed upwind and
down and were able to work their way back into contention even if not at
the front at the first mark. I belive they were not pointers, but footed
very fast. The US team of Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle were 2nd. The Danes had
clearly been working hard, as they had several other teams in the top
ten besides Riber/Malling. As frequently happens at the pre-worlds, not
all competitors sailed all the races, so several top ranked teams were
outside the top ten.

Despite some predictions of most mains not measuring due to the 505
Class International Rules Committee ruling that half height and three
quarter height would be determined by measuring down from the head, most
mains did measure. However, a number of competitors were forced to alter
their sails to get them to measure in. Changes ranged from numbering
spinnakers to cutting away part of a jib clew and to moving batten
pockets and cutting away a little of the leech on a few mainsails.

With only one race a day, the Worlds races were longer than the
pre-worlds. The 505 Worlds course, of gate start, beat, close reach,
close reach, beat, run, beat, close reach, close reach, beat to finish
was used for both events, but the legs were longer for Worlds races.

The first worlds race was in quite light air, and came close to the time
limit. There were some significant shifts. Riber/Malling continued on
from their pre-worlds success by leading up the first beat and all the
way around the race course. Four time world champion Krister Bergström
with Thomas Moss crewing were close behind but not able to threaten the
Riber/Malling team. Dietrich Scheder-Bieschin/Johan Arvedson rounded the
first mark 3rd, just ahead of a pack of boats. Ali Meller/Allan Johnson
were able to pass Scheder-Bieschin/Arvedson on the second reach, but
Scheder-Bieschin re-took 3rd up the 2nd beat. The leaders opened up
a little on the run. At the last leeward mark, Riber/Malling and
Bergström/Moss were well ahead, with Meller/Johnson once again having
passed Scheder-Bieschin for 3rd. Mark Upton-Brown/Ian Mitchell had
slowly worked their way up into 4th, with Tom Bojland/Anders Friis, past
470 World Champion Wolfgang Hunger/Holger Jess, and Kalle Nilsson/Johan
Barne close behind. Upton-Brown/Mitchell finished 3rd, Scheder-Bieschin
4th, Bojland/Friis 5th, Hunger/Jess 6th, Nilsson/Barne 7th,
Meller/Johnson 8th, Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin 9th and Tyler Moore/Scott
Ikle 10th. Scheder-Bieschin and Hunger/Jess filed YMP protests over the
RC moving the pin end of the finish line and were awarded 4th and 6th
respectively, getting the same score as the boats that had just beaten
them at the RC end of the line.

The second race was also light, though the breeze built up slightly
allowing marginal trapezing towards the end of the race. Early gaters
were well ahead of the middle and late gaters. Hamlin/Martin won the
race over Upton Brown/Mitchell, with Kim Christensen/Erik Orsted 3rd,
Ebbe Rosén/Olle Wenrup 4th, Scheder-Biechin/Arvedson 5th, Barker/Young
6th, Tim Boger/Philip Christiani 7th, Jorgen Thumann/Franco Weichel 8th,
Moore/Ikle 9th and Bojland/Friis 10th. Bojland/Friis, Riber/Malling and
Bergström/Moss were all caught on the right at the start. Bojland/Friis
chose to go hard left to get back into the race, while Riber/Malling and
Bergström/Moss tried to work shifts on the first beat. All three of
these teams were outside the top ten at the first mark, but
Bojland/Friis worked up to 10th, while Riber/Malling were 13th and
Bergström/Moss 22nd.

I don't actually remember much of race 3. It was still light.
Hamlin/Martin won, leading most of the way around. The race was close
however, with places changing all the way around, particularly on the
final beat. Barker/Young sailed a great last beat to pull into 2nd,
after rounding the last leeward mark close to 10th. Hunger/Jess
continued to demonstrate their ability to grind through the fleet after
being back early, by finishing 3rd, Rosen/Wenrup were 4th, Rasmus
Damsgaard/Soren Overbeck 5th, Upton-Brown/Mitchell 6th, Meller/Johnson
7th, Bergström/Moss 8th, Scheder-Bieschin/Arvedson 9th and 1997 UK
National Champion Ian Pinnell/Ian Godfrey 10th. Pre-worlds winners
Riber/Malling were 13th again.

Race 4 also saw places changing around the course in mostly light air.
In particular, the run and subsequent beat shuffled the fleet up with
lots of place changes and some teams making big gains while others had
big losses. Conditions improved with slightly more breeze for the last
triangle. Rosen/Wenrup got the win, passing Upton-Brown/Mitchell on the
last beat on a small shift. Upton-Brown/Mitchell were 2nd, Hamlin/Martin
3rd, Hunger/Jess 4th, Meller/Johnson 5th, Pinnell/Godfrey 6th,
Bergsrom/Moss 7th after their spinnaker head tore off the rest of the
sail on the last reach, Riber/Malling 8th, Barker/Young 9th and
Damsgaard/Overbeck 10th.

The Race Officer posted a change to the schedule the following morning,
stating the RC's intention to run two races to make up for losing the
3rd race. Race 5 was another closely fought battle in a little more air
than some of the races. Moore/Ikle won with Hunger/Jess 2nd,
Rosen/Wenrup 3rd, Hamlin/Martin 4th, Meller/Johnson 5th, Pinnell/Godfrey
6th, Damsgaard/Overbeck 7th, Bojland/Friis 8th, Nilsson/Barne 9th, and
Upton-Brown/Mitchell 10th. Bergström/Moss were 11th, which they had to
count after their 2nd race 22nd. Riber/Malling were 16th, Barker/Young
23rd, and Scheder-Bieschin/Arvedson 37th.

The second race of the day was sailed in a little more breeze, trapezing
from the start. Gating early and going left seemed to pay. 1996 505
World Champions Paul Towers/Dan Johnson had excellent speed and went
medium left to lead at the first mark, surely a welcome change from
their 43, 41, 30, 44, 17 scores so far. They won the race.
Upton-Brown/Mitchell worked up to 2nd, Bergström/Moss 3rd, 1990 World
Champion Jurgen Schonherr/Jacob Bosjen-Moller 4th, Riber/Malling 5th,
Moore/Ikle 6th, Christensen/Orsted 7th, Meller/Johnson 8th, Rosen/Wenrup
9th, Hamlin/Martin 10th. Two protests against the RC for running the
race allegedly in violation of the SI and 505 Class Rules were heard by
the International Jury, but in the end the race stood. This put
Upton-Brown/Mitchell narrowly ahead of Hamlin/Martin, with Rosen/Wenrup
not far behind in 3rd.

The final race was sailed with wind more from the East and a little
stronger, with the right corner quite close to shore. At first the early
gaters looked good, with Towers/Johnson gating early and going fast, but
then teams that started late and went right early found a sizeable
shift, and the teams furthest right got a nice lead over the others. The
rabbit, Hamlin/Martin, had tacked when released seeking to pick up the
teams they needed to beat. Both Upton-Brown/Mitchell and Hamlin/Martin
were out of the top group at the first mark. The shore effect continued
to be significant for the rest of the race, particularly on the last
beat, though there were left shifts at times. The wind increased and
went further right during the last triangle. Bergström/Moss won, with
Rosen/Wenrup very close behind in 2nd. Hunger/Jess managed to pull
through the traffic into 3rd after being back early on. Bojland/Friis
were 4th, Jan Saugmann/Morten Ramsbaek 5th, Riber/Malling pulled through
to 6th, Christiansen/Orsted were 7th, Boger/Christiani 8th,
Hamlin/Martin 9th, and Barker/Young pulled up to 10th. In the stronger
breeze some of the Aussie teams finally got to go; Hugh Stoddart/Mathew
Owen were 11th, and Dean Williams/Darren Nicholson were 17th.

This gave the 1997 505 World Championship to Mark Upton-Brown/Ian
Mitchell of the UK, by a very narrow 0.3 point margin over the Swedish
team of Ebbe Rosén/Olle Wenrup. Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin of the USA
were 3rd, Wolfgang Hunger/Holger Jess (Germany) 4th, Krister
Bergström/Thomas Moss (Sweden) 5th, Hans Jorgen Riber/Adam Malling
(Denmark) 6th, Ali Meller/Allan Johnson (USA, racing a 17 year old 505)
7th, Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle (USA) 0.7 points back in 8th, Ian
Barker/Paul Young (UK) 9th, and Tom Bojland/Anders Friis (Denmark) 10th.

The prize presentation was at Kronborg castle at Elsinore, where
Shakespeare's Hamlet is set. Danish sportsman of the century, and long
time 505 supporter PAUL ELVSTROM presented the prizes.

Mark and Ian won not only the 1st place at the worlds, but the best
finish counting all races. Though they did not win a lot of races, they
were always able to work their way up through the fleet, generally
gaining and passing boats, to make each race a keeper (their throw out
was a 10th). Another team that were able to work their way through in
most races was Wolfgang Hunger/Holger Jess. Allan and I often had both
these teams behind us early in a race, but they usually got past us.
Krister and Thomas were apparently working with a new high aspect low
area centerboard (I did not see it, but was told this) to go along with
Krister's small rudder. They seemed fast at times, but not always.
Howard and Mike were pointing very high as usual, and won more races
than anyone else, but having to count two 9th place finishes pulled them
down to third. Ebbe and Olle have the no-practice program down! Though
not the fastest, they were fast enough, and were able to take advantage
of the smallest opportunities to pass some boats, particularly late in
a race.

My girlfriend Lauren and I took the train to Copenhagen the day after
the prize presentation. While in the Copenhagen train station, we heard
a small group of drunken louts singing loud songs... then it occurred to
us that some of the voices and the song might be familiar... it was
probably some remnants of the UK drinking and 505 racing team - a.k.a
the barmy 505 army - passing through.

Ali Meller
USA 7200 & 8263
