1995 505 World Championship


Record Turnout at 1995 505 World Championship and Pre-Worlds
By Ali Meller

The 40th Annual 505 World Championship was held June 27th through August
4th, at the Mounts Bay Sailing Club, in Marazion, Cornwall, England.
106 teams qualified to compete in the event. The 505 class has
increased the worlds limit from the old 85 boats to allow more teams to
race in the World Championship. There were seven races scheduled, but
only four races were sailed. Two were lost due to no wind, while the
last race was lost due to wind of 35-40 knots. The RC waited most of
the day hoping to get a final race in, 35 knots would be OK, but 40 was
a bit much.


The World Championship was preceded by a six race pre-worlds and UK
Nationals regatta which had 140 teams competing, the largest recorded
505 regatta. The 505 worlds courses - an old-style Olympic with two
extra reaches and a final beat - with 1.5 mile legs, was used for both
the pre-worlds and worlds. The pre-worlds were sailed in a wider range
of winds with four races in the 5-15 knot range, one race in the 25-30
knot range, and the Race of the Year in which an extra lap - making the
race the equivalent of two Olympic courses - was sailed in 30 to 35+
knots. I am going to remember some of those reaches for the rest of my
life; doing 20 knots on a tight two sail reach, passing boats you
thought were there, but you couldn't see for the spray, trying to get
a breath of air through the bow wave!


Prizes were presented to by HRH Princess Anne, who watched 
the last race from the water and met many of the competitors after the 
race.


The venue for the pre-worlds and World Championship was extraordinary.
Marazion is the oldest town in Cornwall; mining tin and trading
with southern France and the Mediterranean countries over
2000 years ago. Marazion is overlooked by St. Michael's
Mount, which rises out of the sea just a few hundred feet
offshore, and the nearly 1000 year old castle at the top. Competitors
and families took advantage of one of the nicest beaches in Cornwall,
Marazion's children's play area just behind the beach, a Ferris wheel
and several other rides.


Though a small club, the Mounts Bay Sailing Club runs one major 
championship each year; the organization of both racing and
non racing events was excellent. 


One day was set aside between the pre-worlds and the worlds to measure the
boats, spars and sails of the 106 competitors. Competitors could submit up
to two suits of sails and two sets of spars for measuring. Competitors 
were required to have sails pre-measured during the pre-worlds, so 
that worlds sail measurement consisted of checking for a current 
measurement stamp and checking basic dimensions, rather than a full sail 
measurement. The sailing weight of each boat was checked and the newest 
Duvoisin, Kyrwood and Rondar boats were subjected to a full measurement 
check. During the measurement process about 8 boats were found to be 
underweight, most by less than 1kg although one was underweight by 6kg; 
and on a few boats the lead was not glassed in.
Only minor problems were encountered with some of the spars (a few
overlength spinnaker poles and missing or incorrectly positioned black
bands) and sails. Measurement was completed well
ahead of schedule, as the measurement team needed less than the allotted
six minutes per boat.



World Championship conditions were light to medium. Gate starts and 
Worlds courses - two more reaches and a beat on
the end of the old Olympic course - were used 
for all races. Racing was very close, 
with top teams finishing races in the back and vice versa. 
Though the Nicholsons (AUS) did not defend their '94 title, 
Darren Nicholson crewed, and was 52nd. '93 World Champion Ian Barker 
(GBR) was 44th. A variety of rigs, hulls, crew weights and sails were 
evident in the top ten finishers. The two oldest boats in the fleet, 
7318 and 7876 (both sailed by recent US intercollegiate sailing stars), 
and the newest boat, 8585, all finished in the top ten! 
7318 was built in '81, 7876 was built in '86, while 8585 was barely 
finished in time to sail the pre-worlds! 



The 505 is raced in 18 countries in Europe, Asia, North America, Africa 
and Australia; some 14 countries were represented at the Worlds.



Race 1. Ebbe Rosen and Olle Wenrup from Sweden, the rabbit, led at the 
first mark, lost Robinson/Masterman (GBR), but then passed them again 
before the top of the 3rd beat. They led from then on. Bergström/Moss
(SWE) were 2nd, with Robinson/Masterman 3rd, Towers/Johnson (GBR) 4th,
and Barker/Cripps (GBR) 5th.



The next race was abandoned before the start, due to lack of wind.



Race 2. Light air, the right was favored on first beat, Homes/Young (GBR), 
the rabbit, were well ahead, and led at every mark. There were 
interesting current effects on several legs. 
Several boats were disqualified by the International jury for 
kinetics in this race. Bergström/Moss were 2nd again, with 
Cisneros/Crispin (GBR) 3rd, Carveth/Mitchell (GBR) 4th, and 
Christensen/Langedorf (DEN) 5th. 
Several of the top boats in the first race had their problems during 
this race. Robinson/Masterman were 31st, while Towers/Johnson and 
Barker/Cripps were disqualified.



The next race was abandoned before the start due to lack of wind.



Race 3. Four time world champion Peter Colclough (GBR), now sailing with
his son, started early in the gate crossed the fleet and led all the way
around. Marcel Buffet, 73 old superman, was 2nd at the windward mark.
Buffet/Roucayrol (FRA) finished 8th in the race. A big right shift on
the last leg provided big gains for those boats furthest right.
Rosen/Wenrup, winners of the 1st race, were 2nd, while
Robinson/Masterman rebounded with a 3rd. Nelson/Alarie (USA) were 4th,
with Moore/Cox (USA) 5th. Bergström/Moss were squeezed out of the front
row in the gate, and were forced to duck lots of transoms when they went
right, and then were caught on the wrong side of the big last beat
shift. They finished 28th. Towers/Johnson were 6th, while
Holmes/Young's 7th kept them in the hunt. 


Race 4. Started light to medium, the breeze almost died off at the
bottom of the 3rd beat, and then built up to planing upwind at the
finish. Warne/Collins from South Africa led this race for some time,
but finished 6th. After 8 legs and 12 miles (as the crow flies) of
racing, the top 20 boats were virtually nose-to-tail at the last leeward
mark. It was a close race at the top, with places changing all the way
around the course up to the finish line. Rosen/Wenrup sailed their
throwout, finishing 72nd, while previous race winners
Colclough/Colclough were 54th. Towers/Johnson and Barker/Cripps were
also deep. Robinson/Masterman finished 1st, with Hamlin/Martin (USA)
2nd, Bergstron/Moss 3rd, Hellmich/Meyer (GER) 4th, Higgins/Wilsdon (AUS)
5th. Robinson/Masterman's win against Bergström/Moss's 3rd gave them
a 0.3 point lead over Bergström/Moss after throwouts. This would have
set up a tremendous battle for the last race, but....



The last race was abandoned before the start due to the 35-40 knot 
conditions. This left the standings as they were after the 4th race,
with Robinson/Masterman over Bergström/Moss by the 0.3 point margin. 
Rosen/Wenrup were 3rd overall, with Holmes/Young - the most consistent of 
the top boats - 4th. American intercollegiate stars Moore/Cox were 5th,
and Nilsson/Arvedsson (SWE) 6th counting YMP average points after being 
holed in race 3.



Alexander Meller / ameller@mcimail.com



