505 Europeans 1969

Variable conditions but consistent performances. Mike Fitzpatrick report from Dun Laoghaire

Dun Laoghaire, the mail boat terminal and yachting harbour in Dublin
Bay, was the venue for the 505 European championship from August 15th to
23rd. Once again Britain's Derek Farrant was a convincing winner, this
time with his new man Mike Fountain on the wire.

The third week of August was characterised by fast moving fronts
bringing boisterous but changeable winds and everything from bright sun
to torrential rain. Farrant stamped his authority on the fleet in all
conditions, although be was pushed hard in the heavier going by the
eventual runner-up Jan Eppers, the Danish champion, and the Bath
brothers, for some time top dogs in Sweden.

The field was a representative and star studded one with the cream of
Europe supplemented by entries from as far afield as Hong Kong and the
Argentine. Unfortunately the international team racing scheduled for the
Wednesday was blown off and is now to be sailed in Paris in October but
the day to day races' showed a tendency for different nations to prosper
in certain conditions.

 The championship was off to an inauspicious start in a fluky Force 1-2
 breeze. After an hour's postponement to allow the wind to settle in the
 SE the 65 e ntries embarked on an uptide beat with Farrant in 'Miss
 VII' quickly leading the shoreward contingent and crossing back to the
 middle in time to cover any lifts. At the first mark it was Farrant
 well clear of the Argentinian Héctor Domato in a borrowed boat, using
 his own sails, and Hugh Bourn of Britain. Throughout the race the wind
 increased and Farrant looked more and more assured of success. Demato
 hung on grimly despite Farrant's cautious covering and a battle royal
 was fought for third by three Hastings crews. Gordon Wilson in 'Frère's
 Bear' looked to have third in his pocket when only yards from the line
 he performed an aquatic evolution, letting through Paul and Victor
 Deschamps (GB) in 'Phantom' and Bourn. Eppers in 'Moustache' was sixth.


 If Sunday's wind was fluky, Monday's was impossible. After ten
 postponements, three relaid courses and a general recall a slow start
 was made in a light south-easterly. Farrant and several French boats
 led the port wing out to sea, Paul Nevard (GB) in 'Ducky Too' went well
 inshore out of the tide with, a local and British following. Many were
 confounded when a Force 3 sprang up from nowhere bringing both wings in
 on close reaches while the cautious middlemen were caught flatfooted.
 Pierre Poullain's 'Viking' was first round with a 200 yard lead from
 Nevard and Farrant.

The fleet was slow to fly spinnakers until Nevard, having perfected his
close reaching drill in FDs, hoisted. The effect was dramatic - 'Ducky
Too' left 'Miss.Vll' and screamed off in pursuit of Poullain. The
Frenshman could not match Nevard's spinnaker skill on the second reach,
dropping and rehoisting his spinnaker in an agony of indecision before
Nevard went through to windward. Nevard lost on the beat, however, and
first Poullain then Farrant got past. On the shuttle Nevard again gave
a paralysing spinnaker performance and at the last mark it was any one
of four to win, Jan Eppers having come up on the heat in the
strengthening wind. Poullain had the advantage of a short lead and
'chose to cover Eppers and Farrant but this led them all through the
dirty wind of the running fleet and let Nevard pull well up. Poullain
crossed Nevard just in time to cover him while Eppers and Farrant tacked
early for the finish in the hope of pinching home on a lift. Poullain
took the gun from Nevard, Farrant, Eppers, N.Loday and P.Chaigne of
France in 'Dead or Alive' and C. and P.Bath of Sweden in 'Kalabalik'.

Although reasonable at launching time the wind came up to a squally
Force 5 during the third race on Tuesday, conditions which really suited
the Scandinavians. At the first mark, however, it was Poullain once
again. British hopes were lessened by Farrant's seventh but he scooted
downwind with superb spinnaker work and pulled through to second. As
these two battled for the lead Eppers once more showed his windward
ability in a blow and went away on his own while Roumaillac of France
slipped into second.

The wind increased and many of the tailenders swam down the shuttle as
the leaders beat the other way. Roumaillac fell back a little in the
gusts while the other heavy weather experts, the Bath brothers of Sweden
stormed up to third from a poor position after an early morning dip.
Eppers took the gun from Farrant. Poullain was fourth, Roumaillac and
C.Brodard in 'Djinn' fifth and Loday sixth.

Wednesday's sailing was blown off but at last a fairly settled Force
4 wind was blowing on Thursday morning. The committee made their only
miscalculation of the week and laid a short line, but a fair one. With
a strong tide setting the fleet up towards the first mark and no room
for premature starters to free off down the line, the result was four
general recalls. At last they were away and Farrant powered away
from the committee boat end into a lead which be held to the first
mark. Hugh Bourn almost flew along the reaches under spinnaker to
race from fourth to first at the leeward mark. A wind shift biased
the beat badly and allowed little place changing and Farrant bad to
bide his time. He tried every tactic on the run but could not get
past and Bourn started the final beat with a narrow lead. A knot in
the knitting slowed him momentarily and Farrant sailed through to
another first and a firm overall lead. Harold Cudmore and C.Bruen in
'Overdrawn' (Ireland) were third, Jean-Marie Daniélou and J.Gillet (France)
in 'Gentil Petit Virus d'amour' were fourth, the Pajot brothers
(France) fifth in 'Leopard' and Poullain sixth.


As it turned out the fifth race on Friday was to be the last race of the
series as the bad weather deteriorated further by Saturday. A furious
sea boiled outside the harbour and a good Force 5 blew, with an
occasional line squall. The fleet was away first time and the Bath
brothers went straight to the front, chased by Eppers, never to be
headed. Farrant tried a port hitch for clear air and put himself the
wrong side of the only major shift of the day to round the mark in the
late teens. He did well to pull up to twelfth at the finish but with
Bath and Eppers at the front his overall lead was threatened. Cudmore
bad also been coming up in the rough going and at one point almost
caught Eppers at the lee mark by astute tacking downwind. However, he
came in a shade too fine and flipped as he dropped his spinnaker. The
Bath brothers held their lead from Eppers. P.Sadoc and A.Deviter
(France) in 'Gibbies' were third, Cudmore fourth, the Pajot brothers
fifth and Paul and Victor Deschamps sixth. Although he dropped in this
race Farrant still retained his overall lead.


The results were:

1st 'Miss VII' (Derek Farrant and Mike Fountain, GB) 11 points.

2nd 'Moustache' (Jan Eppers and Per Gotfredsen. Denmark) 20,4

3rd 'Kalabalik' (Christer and Pelle Bath, Sweden) 30,4

4th 'Overdrawn' (Harold Cudmore and Chris Bruen, Ireland) 41,7

5th 'Phantom' (Paul and Victor Deschamps, GB) 43,1

6th 'Samuel Esquire' (Hugh Bourn and Mike Bryant, GB) 44,0

7th 'Leopard' (Yves and Marc Pajot. France) 49,0

8th 'Djinn' (Jean Roumaillac and Christian Brodard, France) 53,0

9th 'Viking' (Pierre Poullain and Daniel Nottet, France) 61,7

Farrant's win was a popular one and there is no doubt that he is as fast
or faster than ever with Mike Fountain in place of brother Robin. The
winning boat is one of the new wooden Parkers which have had mixed
fortunes this year. In the hands of Mike Arnold another won the light
weather British championship but this week was their first serious test
in dusty conditions. Farrant showed a marked superiority to windward in
a sea and held his own downwind. He is not convinced that the extra
stiffness of the wooden hull outweighs the superior finish of a glass
hull and says that his next boat will probably be a glass hull with wood
tanks, the same combination used by, Christer and Pelle Bath. All the
front runners were British Parker boats.

In contrast there was a variety of sails at the top, most helmsmen
favouring their own national top sailmakers. Technical talking point of
the week, was the introduction of spinnaker chutes, a move
overwhelmingly voted in at the AGM on the Wednesday evening. There were
reservations about the need to move the jib tack further back - to
a proposed new maximum of 4 cm - many feeling this will inhibit windward
performance. Several boats with the officially allowed experimental
chutes had, however, performed well in the week and in the past season
of trials and presumably the problems can be ironed out by a slight
change of jib cut and boat tune.

The National and Royal St. George Yacht Clubs are to be congratulated on
their handling of this, their first major international event. The lines
were true and the courses good, despite the elements, and information
and public commentary was constantly available from the splendidly
equipped mobile office of the sponsors, Player-Wills.

From a 1969 issue of Yachts & Yachting (page 512-513)
