1998 Florida Midwinter Championship
The 5o5 class resurgence continues to be evident at the Florida Midwinter Championship. Since moving the event to the St. Petersburg Yacht Club, 505 attendance has gone from 12 to 20 to 23 and now to 32, the largest 505 midwinters since the late '70s, and the largest high performance dinghy midwinters in North America (not even counting the upcoming 505 West Coast midwinters!) Numbers are not everything, depth in the fleet counts as well. So do the newcomers, the couples, and those who have been racing 505s forever. The fleet included:
St. Pete ex-opti ace Chris Tuggle
wife and husband team Carrie and Jeff Jones and husband and wife team Betsy and Bob O'Brien
Past I-14 Annapolis champion, E scow, and IOD racer Tom Price
top Hampton One Design racer Latane Montague
ex intercollegiate All American Stergios Papadakis
top Australian 505 racer Malcolm Higgins
German Mumm 36 racers (Thomas I. Punkt) and 505 racers Tom Swift and Martin Schoeler
ex intercollegiate racers Mark Bellerman and Art Gleason
ex intercollegiate and long time frostbite ace Neal Fowler
Albacore ace and past intercollegiate racer Barney Harris
ex intercollegiate star and top 470 racer Josh Adams
ex intercollegiate star and top Tornado and International Canoe racer Lars Guck
ex intercollegiate star and past Laser II world champion Mark Mendelblatt
ex intercollegiate star Mitchell Rogers
ex intercollegiate racer, North sailmaker, past 5o5 World and North American Champion Ethan Bixby
ex intercollegiate All Americans and top team racers Nick Trotman and Mike Mills
ex intercollegiate All Americans, top team racers and current 5o5 North American Champions Mike Zani and Peter Alarie
1994 college sailor of the year Tyler Moore
Top intercollegiate sailing coach Scott Ikle
There were 505 sailors in their teens, twenties, thirties, forties, fifties and sixties racing.
As it did last year, the regatta included the International Canoes (ten boats) and the Flying Dutchman (five boats). As always, Nancy Graham and the SPYC did a great job running the event, with a packed schedule of racing and social events, and breakfast, dinner and beer included in the entry fee. Some competitors describe it as the best event they have raced in. Pat Seidenspinner was once again RC chair, and her RC did an outstanding job of running the races, frequently having to shift the weather mark for each weather leg, all while three classes were racing on the same course. The RC also responded ably to the 505 class's request for gate starts, running nine gate starts without a hitch for the 505s (the International Canoe and FD's stayed with line starts). One outcome of the gate start experience is that the RC appears to be as sold on the idea as the 505 class and may be considering encouraging other classes having events at St. Pete's to use them.

Thanks again to Nancy and Pat, and to the SPYC. Another outstanding regatta!

A number of teams showed up early to practice, and were rewarded with great 15-18 knot breezes on Thursday January 1st. A high threatened to leave us no wind at all for the event, but there was enough breeze each of the three days for all nine scheduled races to be run, with at least some marginal trapezing in each.

Ethan Bixby/Mitchell Rogers sailed an excellent 1,2,2 to lead after the first day of racing with Mike Zani/Peter Alarie's 2,1,5 keeping them close. Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle had a great second day with a 3,1,2 pulling them into a three way tie for first with Bixby/Rogers and Zani/Alarie. Moore/Ikle's momentum continued on the third day of racing with a 1,5,1 giving them the 1998 5o5 Florida Midwinter Championship. Zani/Alarie's 5,3,7 kept them in second, while Nick Trotman/Mike Mills 3,1,8 pulled them past Bixby/Rogers into 3rd.

The shifty conditions, current, and puffs and holes made for some very challenging racing, with big gains and losses frequently happening all the way through a race. There were also some very close finishes.

The Florida Midwinters continues to be a good example of where the North American 505 class is. The event and the class are growing. There were almost brand new Rondars and Waterats, as well as lots of older boats (three over 20 years old). Three of the five used UK 505s imported this year were at the regatta. North and Ullman/Danger sails were popular, and both spinnaker launcher and forward tack bag boats did well. Once again a number of people at the midwinters have bought 505s and joined the 505 class within the past year. Welcome to Fred Liesegang and Dave Anderson, Chris Tuggle and Paul Muus, David Chatham and Chuck Norris, Tom Price and David Byron, Malcolm Higgins and Peter Epstein, Josh Adams and Lars Guck. These teams all bought 505s within the past year.

Paul Muus has done an incredible job of rebuilding Parker 5482. The boat looks brand new, and has been completely rerigged (looks just like a new Waterat layout) with all the important controls. This boat used to belong to long time 5o5 sailor John McNeil and was in exceptional condition when Paul bought it, but even so the transformation is fantastic. This is an outstanding example of what can be done with an older Parker 5o5. Even though they are still figuring out the tuning, Chris and Paul finished ahead of a good Waterat 505 and several other much newer 505s, and beat new Rondars and much newer Parkers and Ballengers in races. Chris and Paul were the top finishing classic 505 (sail number older than 6500, excluding Parker-hulled Lindsays). Paul has taken pictures of the rebuild and has promised an article for Tank Talk and the web page.
