1998 West River MidAtlantics

There are weekends that one should probably best think of as the the price to
pay for great sailing moments, like screaming along on a three sail reach. We
had such a weekend May 23-24 at the West River Sailing Club. The event was the
annual 505 Mid-Atlantics, moved to a spring date from the usual fall weekend
because of a conflict with the worlds in Hyannis.

The regatta had all the elements of a perfect weekend. Nine boats showed,
including Henry and Doug Amthor from Hampton, Jim Englert and Thad Melton, also
from Virginia, John Wyles and newcomer to 505 sailing Dennis Buroughs. There
were also a strong turnout from local Fleet 19, including Mark Freedman,
sailing with Les Crane, Bob O'Brien, Tom Price and Mike Breton.

We also had a few cases of cold beer on hand, plenty of food and an RC that
boasted nine volunteers, a committee boat and two speed boats -- not to mention
a willingness to do gate starts.

Like I said, the regatta had all the elements of perfect weekend, except one:
WIND.

Saturday was a complete bust. We started one race. The wind shifted 90 degrees,
died, came back, shifted again, died, etc. It was the kind of race where the
beats turn into runs and turn back into beats again. The race was abandoned.
And the fleet was towed in. On the up side, WRSC is a great place to spend a
sunny afternoon in May, sipping beer and kicking back.

Sunday looked equally grim. A ride out to the usual race course found not a
hint of breeze. But there was 0-5 in the river, just a short sail off the club
grounds. There was breeze no where else on the bay for hours except for this
one spot. The RC managed to fire off three short course windward-leeward races
to make a series. The breeze was again rather up and down. You were lucky to
have a few moments to sit on the windward tank, with most crews spending the
bulk of the time to leeward.

Jim Englert and Thad Melton, showing once again that they do well in the light
stuff, captured three bullets. The Amthor brothers were second and Macy Nelson
and Allan Freedman took third.


