1993 505 North American Championship

Reprinted from the "Year End 93" Tank Talk

The 1993 505 North Americans were held at the Crescent Sail Yacht Club, in
Grosse Pointe Michigan, August 30th through September 3rd. John Dohan and Bill
Beardslee put this event together by themselves, doing an outstanding job. Five
races were sailed, with winds mostly light and medium, and somewhat shifty. The
second race was the windiest, at 15-17 knots. 31 teams participated, with
competitors from the East Coast, California, Eastern Canada, the Midwest, and
England.

It was a very close regatta, with 4 boats able to win the NAs going into the
last race. Macy Nelson/Peter Alarie sailed a great race, and won, putting
enough boats between them and the two boats that had been ahead going into the
last race, to win the NAs. Ali Meller/Ethan Bixby were 2nd overall. This gives
Fleet 19 the top two places in the NAs! Mike Punnet/Scott Ikle were 3rd, Howard
Hamlin/Steve Rosenberg 4th, Jeff Boyd/Gord McIlquham 5th, Mark Mendelblatt/Flynn
6th. The top placed "co-ed non-Olympian team", prize was won by Marg
Hurley/Peter Wood of Ottawa, with Fleet 19's Bob and Betsy O'Brien just 4
points behind. Guess which Olympic gold medallist excluded from the above
prize, finished 12th?

I would write a tack by tack, blow by blow description, but Ethan had me
completely focused on the jib telltales, the waves, and the weeds; I have no
idea what was going on during the races. Ask Macy if you want more details.
I've included some notes.

Everyone who asked was billeted. Great T-shirts were provided. Good Race
Committee was provided. The RC did a great job of getting some races in between
squalls. Crescent Sail is a nice club - lots of one-design racing, a large new
addition, showers, and a snack bar, bagged lunches were available. Free beer
after racing every day! Lots of kids and racing moms and dads! (We could market
ourselves as a family racing boat)! There were seven women in the fleet;
Allison Jolly, Marg Hurley, and Clarissa Bush helming, Teresa Schulz, Betsy
O'Brien, Penny Estabrook, and Carol Alexander crewing.

Day 1

Measurement and registration followed by two practice races. The Race Committee
was not familiar with gate starts, but saw how simple and easy it was (we may
have some converts here). Racing was adjourned in favor of the party at Mrs.
Beardslee's (Bill's mother) home. Nice place (our kind of people), great party,
too bad it rained. Most of the fleet appears to be billeted here, but it is so
large they do not see each other much. Happy birthday to Ethan!

The Last Race

Four boats could win the regatta. Major rain, delayed start until within ten
minutes of the time limit. Wind off the shore. Held after squall, several teams
swam during the squall. Windy at the start, got lighter and lumpier. Shifty.
Breault/Hartman led early, Trotman sailed a good race and finished 2nd.
Englert/Melton were up with the leaders. Nelson/Alarie punched through for the
big win. Hamlin/Rosenberg were 3rd, Breault/Hartman were 4th, Punnet/Ikle 5th,
Boyd McIlwham 6th and Englert/Melton 7th.

Thanks are due to the Crescent Sail Yacht Club, John and Bill and the other
members of the committee (John and Bill), the Midwest fleet, and all those who
opened their homes (and boats) for a bunch of basically weird sailors. When can
we come back for another regatta?

Other Highlights

Changing demographics; the class has more XL people and more kids than before,
as demonstrated by T-shirt sales (oh, wow, are we growing up, growing fat, and
having kids?), Terry Neff finishing a race without a rudder. Punnet/Ikle's
AC/DC 505 - bags or launcher and heavily raked rig with Pinnel & Bax sails.
They have even gone to the European in-out adjustment on the jib lead.
Meller/Bixby's North 3DL mainsail, a see-through molded sail with no seams,
probably the only one-design 3DL sail in existence. North's new version of the
watermelon spinnaker. Weed stick technology - Kai Kaiser's rig was something to
be seen! - to deal with the weeds that make Hampton look weed free! Lake St.
Clair is shallow (mud on your sail if you capsize), and choppy.  One of several
personal highlights was having my two 505s finish 1st and 2nd in the 3rd race.
7772 was 6th overall.

Participants had an impressive background:

Past 505 World Champion - Ethan
Past 505 North American Champions Ethan, Macy, Howard
East Coast Champions - Mike and Scott, Macy, Howard, Ali
Midwinter Champions - Ali, Macy, Mike and Scott
Current Canadian Open Champions - Mike and Scott
Current Fireball National Champions - Allison and Mark
Past Laser Canadian Champion - Jeff
Intercollegiate all Americans - Mike Breault, Art Gleason, Nick Trotman, Peter Alarie, Bryan Largay, Matt Sanders
AC 12 Meter helmsman and tactician - Jeff
470 Olympian - Gord McIlwham
Olympic Gold Medallist - Allison Jolly
Past Yachtswoman of the Year - Allison Jolly

Ali Meller
ameller@mcimail.com
