UK 505 Inlands

The 505 inland championship was held at Grafham Water SC over the May Bank
Holiday, and sponsored by Ronstan, Pinnell & Bax Sails, Hyde Sails, Milanes
Foils, Jonti of Grafham and River Mill Boats of Eaton Socon. The 505 events now
have a format of several course variations and shorter races, giving more
varied sailing than the old-fashioned triangle, sausage, triangle.

The first race was a basic windward/leeward and was won by the new pairing of
Jim Hunt and Nick Beloe. Just to prove that it was not a fluke they repeated
this in the second and third races, over the 'old' Olympic-style course. For
these results they collected six bottles of champagne. Hunt must have been
grateful to see that Beloe ate all his greens as a lad, as an excess of 6ft
4ins and 15 stone was doubtless a great help in 25-30 knots of wind.

The second day also supplied brisk breezes, but a slight reduction to 20-25
knots offered minor relief.

Hunt and Blow did not have so much of their own way this time, with Mark
Upton-Brown and Ian Mitchell winning the fourth and sixth races, and collecting
four bottle of bubbly. Hector Cisneros and Lawrence Crispin pushed Hunt and
Beloe hard in the fifth race but lost out on the run.

The overnight points after six races had Hunt and Beloe on 4.25, Clive Robinson
and Gary Cawthorne second with 24, and Ian Pinnell and Nick Powell third with
26. Upton-Brown was counting a disqualification and so was not showing at the
top of the points table.

By the third day the wind had moderated to an exceedingly shifty Force 2-3.
This was not to the liking of Hunt and Beloe who scored a 13th and an eight.
Upton-Brown got back into the frame with a second and a fourth. Pinnell
collected the champagne in the seventh race and a fifth in the last. This was
won by Martin Goult and Gordon Russell, who were having a good day with a
second in the seventh race.

Many thanks must go to the two race officers, Peter Waghorn and Mike Beloe, who
must be congratulated on their courses that could not be bettered, and the
rescue teams who had a very busy three days managing many mishaps.
