pre-World

Race 1

We had two races in a westerly wind and trapezing conditions...

The course was 2 nautical miles long legs and pretty
demanding...Windshifts were pretty difficult to read and the coast
effect was not neglictable ...

Good sunny conditions but not too hot.

Philippe made it clear in the first race that we were sailing in his
garden as you will see below he won the first race.

Ian Pinnell then let everybody knows that he will learn the place very
quickly... he finishes the race with a 3 minute and a half lead over the
very fast Saugman...

It is not packed at the venue yet but we have over 70 teams enjoying the
beautiful place...

Rendez vous for futher news...

Cheers

Jean-Baptiste

----------------

Race 3

Quite a weird day with a front passing by bringing an somewhat overcast
day with rain at times and very light wind let say 2 at best...

Race 3 was started on time according to French standards... no more than
half an hour late !!!

It has been a very tactical race with the wind shifting significantly to
the left while we were reaching down the downwind buoy.

The danish team Shoenherr/Kaempe on a brand new boat managed to work the
thing very well and won by a few boatlengths only off Hunger/ Jess

Race 4 was eventually cancelled after a couple of recall leaving 12
teams with a penalty of 20% for the next race tomorrow... among those
teams... Phillippe Boite from France whose chances to win the pre World
are becoming slim in these complex conditions.

Weather forecast should be fine for tomorrow... We should experience the
first thermal breeze of the week here in Quiberon... this should allow
the commttee to race the three final races of this competition which
suffers of real "enjeu" such as a national trophy for instance...

See you tomorrow for the final results

Best regards

Jean-Baptiste

----------------

Race 4

Today was great, weatherwise at least, since the sun was shining in
a completely cloudless sky and a nice westerly breeze (force 2) which
did not allow us to go out on the wire.

The place is very tactical and speed is key to making good races.... as
usual I suppose.

Ali Meller started early race 4 with the handicap of a penalty he cought
yesterday infringing the z flag rule with 11 other boats. He got out of
the fleet and took the lead almost to the end of the race only to be
overtook by Howard Hamlin. David Thompson finished third (on the water
he was fourth but given Ali penalty he finished third). Mark Upton Brown
who completely messed the start made a awesome comeback to finish
5th showing that he is soon back into it.

Committe made several attempts to launch race 5 but could not find
a window good enough to do so. Actually the sea breeze was forming and
the main wind died out but once the thermal was settled it was too late
to have a race. In the evening the sea breeze was quickly replaced by
a strong westerly wind annoucing a major low who will bring wind and
some showers soon.

A brief note to all of those who could not make it to the race... and to
respond to some of the questions I received : you are all really missing
out some great races with at least 60 boats on the line start and soon
over 150... this is amazing and fun especially when it comes to rounding
a buoy... today for instance one of the team lost his crew in a gybe
thrown overboard by the swinging boom and still requesting for water...
when all believed he had enough of it.

Carnac is great and we will give you some more information later.

Girls are great as usual since we are in France.

We are really enjoying ourselves and think of you while you are home and
waiting for our messages... (grin)

cheers and keep in touch

Jean-Baptiste

PS : I forgot to mention that wine here is great as well
