1996 Europa Cup Leg 2
Riva del Garda

16th-20th May 1996

Classic Lake Garda conditions greeted the 505 competitors on May 16-20, for the
second of five Europa Cup events sailed from Fraglia Della Vela, Riva Dal
Garda.

The southern winds were turned on to 20 knots for the first of six races for
the 55 competitors from six European countries, including five boats from the
British Ronstan team. All six races were completed on schedule so there was no
need for any 8am starts to curtail night activities.

The eventual winners, lan Barker and Dan Cripps set the place from race one,
bouncing off the wall first to lead at the windward mark and head off to the
outer loop of the Olympic trapezoid course on the east shore of the lake. They
were overtaken briefly on the next beat by Germans Christian Kellner and Magnus
Groth, but recovered on the next run to lead to the finish. Kellner was
overtaken by ex-Europe World champion Jan Möller and his olympic medal winning
crew Jacob Bojsen-Möller before the finish.

A power surge in the second race pushed the wind up to 25-28 knots, and was
lead from start to finish by Barker who was followed round by Möller in second
and Stephen Bochin from Koln third. Barker made it slightly harder by capsizing
on the run, but his lead was sufficient to retain the lead.

Heat three the next day, again in 20 knots, wa the third victory for Barker,
first around the top mark and never headed. Second was the heavyweight pairing
of Rene Betshen and Philippe Jacot from Switzerland, third overall last year.
Martin and Rainer Gorge from Kiel were third.

A surprise 25-28 knots for the second race that day. Barker pulled off a
perfect port tack start towards the tunnels and won by the biggest margin to
date, about three minutes. Möller who was lying in second place, stopped to
rescue a windsurfer who was in distress having drifted away from his board, and
after picking up the board and rig and delivering him back to the beach was
awarded average points for the series. The Swiss pair of De Cerjat and Moeckli
finished second with Boehm third.

Back to normal for the last day, 20 knots, Barker first, Möller second and
Dietrich Scheder and Klaus Stammerjohann third. Barker having secured victory
headed home, while the wind died to a really light 15 knots for the last race.
De Cerjat and Moeckli found form again to win from Betschen.
