505 Pacific Coast Championship 1998

1998 Pacific Coast Championships Regatta Report

August 29th-30th Richmond YC

Eighteen Boats with 36 members of the 505 class sailed in the 1998 505 PCCs
held at Richmond Yacht Club on the always dependable San Francisco Bay. The
weather was ideal with steady 20-knot breezes on Saturday and 25 knot breezes
on Sunday. Craig Perez once again did a super job organizing the event, with
every detail thought out including snacks for the boys while loading the
container on Sunday. The race committee did a great job running the races and
setting the course. The Race committee chairman said that when she saw half the
boats carrying chutes on the reaches and half not that she knew the angles were
just right.

Three races were sailed Saturday. Race 1 was held in a building 15 knot breeze.
Mike & Howie had jets off the line and first beat to lead the whole race. Dave
and Bruce were hot on their heels though, to take second. New Southern
California fleet addition Andy Zinn brought Danny Thompson performance to the
top pack with a third in race 1.

For race 2 the wind had built to 18 knots. Andy & Danny showed that race 1 was
no fluke by gaining a 50 yard lead on the first beat. They left the rest of the
fleet to duke it out on the reaches. Mike & Howie - after rounding the top mark
in 5th - were able to roll a few boats on the reaches and round the leeward
mark in 2nd. Andy & Danny had spinnaker problems after the rounding and fell to
3rd. Mike & Howie were able to hold everyone off until the finish. Andy & Danny
with blinding reaching speed were able to work back to 2nd and Jim and Jeff
were 3rd.

Race 3 brought more wind yet. Mike & Howie led at the top mark, but the next
reach was a real smoker. Mike & Howie had to strip their kite but Dave & Bruce,
and Andy & Danny were able to carry their chutes. Andy & Danny again had
blazing speed and led at the leeward mark. They however hit the next weather
mark, which gave Dave and Bruce an insurmountable lead. A wire to wire jybing
dual with Mike & Howard down the run caused Andy & Danny to crash and swim at
the leeward mark, and cause Mike & Howard to have an ugly late drop. Jim and
Jeff on the other hand sailed a perfect run to move into second.

Saturday night offered a group dinner at the YC and then a Pacific Coast
pow-wow to discuss next years regattas.

Sunday brought more wind with the first race sailed in 15 to 18 knot breeze.
Again Mike & Howard lead the entire race to finish first, with Dave and Bruce
again hot on their heels, and Jim and Jeff not far behind. This gave Mike &
Howard the regatta. Only Dave and Bruce could tie them if they won the final
race and Mike & Howie got third or worse and that is just what happened. In
25-knot breeze Andy and Danny took an early lead, but broke a trapeze line on
the first beat and retired. This left Dave and Bruce to once again show off
their big breeze ability and win the race easily. Jim and Jeff left Mike and
Howard swimming on the run to finish 2nd and 3rd respectfully. Alex Mehran &
Carisa Harris pulled off an impressive 5th in the windy race to show a glimpse
of their bright 505 future. So the regatta ended in a tie with the breaker
going to Mike & Howie allowing them to remain PCC champions for another year.
After sailing, the container bound for Hyannis was packed full with 10 boats
from the West Coast to take on the world in September.


