Another Narrow Victory for Team Mclube at the High Sierra Regatta

13 teams from all over the West Coast traveled to the High Sierra Regatta over
the weekend of July 11, 12. The High Sierra Regatta is sailed on Hunting Lake
which is at an altitude of 7000 feet in the Sierra Nevada Mountains. It has
beautiful scenery and cold clean water that is runoff from the melting snow
capped mountains that that surround the lake. Because of the location, it is
not only a regatta but a camping trip as well. Each morning you would awake to
the brisk 40-degree mountain air, however by 10:00 the temperature would soar
into the 90s.

This was the final event in the Qualifier series for getting into the SeaLand
sponsored container to the Worlds in Hyannis. So several teams were fighting
hard to ensure there spots in the container. Guest Stars this weekend included
5 time 18 foot Skiff World Champion Trevor Barnabus, who crewed for Danny
Thomson.

Two races were scheduled for Saturday and one on Sunday. The course was around
fixed marks placed around the lake, but are generally in a windward-leeward
configuration. Saturday mornings race was a bit of a fiasco. For the first
start less than half of the fleet made it to the start on time. The remainder
of the boats started in the following few minutes. Mike and Howie crossed the
finish line first, but to silence. The silence was repeated for almost every
boat in the fleet, until Bruce Tilley and Andy Beckman crossed the line. Upon
arriving on shore for lunch, we all found out that apparently the first start
was a general recall. However no one in the fleet heard the signals or saw a
flag. Bruce and Andy were the last ones to cross the starting line 5min and 10
seconds after the first start, which was only 10 seconds late for the real
start; as a result, they finished first and the rest of the fleet was scored
DNS. With only three races and no drops it seemed that they had the regatta
sewed up after only one race.

After a nice lunch break, the fleet sailed out for race 2. This race was much
less eventful, with everyone starting correctly. The light shifty conditions
lead to some tight racing with Mike & Howard winning the race and Bruce & Andy
securing their hold on the regatta with a second. Lots of places changed during
the race offering exciting racing to everyone.

After racing everyone enjoyed the great out doors. Some took joy rides on the
lake, while others went mountain biking or took hikes to see the huge Rancheria
waterfall. Most people then had cookouts and socialized around different
campsites.

Sunday had again very typical conditions for the lake. We had 1 long race with
again Mike and Howie ahead followed a hot battle between Dave & Bruce and Bruce
& Andy. The Santa Cruz Bruisers were able to work their way into second with
Bruce & Andy who crossed the line third. However in shocking irony there was
silence as Bruce & Andy crossed the finish line. They were OCS in the final
race when all they had to do is finish the race to win the regatta. This
mistake gave Mike & Howie the victory. Bruce & Andy's other finishes were good
enough to give them 2nd overall with Dave & Bruce in third. Complete scores are
listed below.
