505 California Champtionship 1998
After many years of loyal Bay Watch viewing I finally got my chance to sail in Marina del Rey. Visions of being rescued by Pamela Anderson at the jibe mark quickly changed to just keeping warm as Saturday dawned to cold and drizzle. The forecast for the day was light and variable, rain and cold. It wasn't looking good for slow motion running on the beach and or sailing, but after a small delay the 505 fleet was off racing. Saturdays racing saw winds of 5-8 knots and shifty. Andy Buckman and Ben Benjamin got of to a quick start and won the first race only to miss the second! They then came back and had a 1,3 in the 3rd and 4th races. Not bad for their first 505 regatta together! The hard work that Mike and Howard put into the lower California fleet is really showing- THEY'RE FAST! ALL OF THEM!!! All 4 races Saturday had the fleet finishing inside of a minute of each other! At the end of the first day Bruce Edwards and David Shelton moved into the lead with scores of 6-1-2-1. Bruce and Dave also won the "guts" prize for their pin end port tack start! Sunday morning came in sunny with light wind again. Race one saw Bob Little PMS and go on to win the race! Local boy rules the waves! The rest of the fleet finished overlapped! No kidding 5 boats went across the line overlapped! The next three races saw the boys in blue mow down the fleet. Sailing smart and fast Bruce and Dave wrapped up the California State Champs by winning the last three races....
A few notes:

Mike and Howard, Human?
Big guys (Dave/Bruce), light air?
Larry Tuttle left the shop and enjoyed his creations!
Beer on the dock after racing (I'll be back!)
Deep fleet! How many top worlds teams and NA champs?
Huge regatta dinner (with free beer!) Saturday night!
Teams from Vancouver, West River (Annapolis), Nor-Cal, and Seattle!
New boats and old boats winning races! Newest 1st! Oldest 3rd!
Great Yacht Club! Great Race management!
See you again at the 99 Hiper regatta!
David Shelton
USA 8680

Some comments from Ali Meller.
A guy really interested in 505s was watching the racing from one of the power boats... he said the spread between 1st place and last place at the windward mark ranged from 38 to 58 seconds for the four Sunday races.. Racing was CLOSE.

The regatta was the antithesis of typical 505 racing... very short windward leeward courses, only 2 races with reaches, but not tight reaches, line starts, etc. It is lots of fun racing short courses, but I am not ready to change world Championship race formats.

Great to see Eric Willis and girlfriend out on the race course... they have done an incredible job fixing up their 19 year old Hamlin, the boat looks great!

Two brand new Waterats and also three 19 year old Hamlins were racing. One of the two new Waterats won, and the second oldest boat was 3rd.

Cool, rain, very shifty and lumpy on Saturday ("probably the worst Southern California conditions anyone could remember"), and a little warmer, sunnier and nicer on Sunday.

California Yacht Club has put a lot of effort into upgrading facilities for dinghies, and has plans for further improvements. Regatta Chairman Dave Collins has worked very hard to put this event together. Club staff were pouring draft beer on the dock... you could step out of the boat and grab a couple of beers while waiting for the crane. Saturday dinner with free beer and Sunday great finger food and free beer before prize presentation.

A very nice club, with super social program for the regatta.

Gorgeous small half models for first place, hats for placing.

11 505s, 11 Europes, 13 I-14s, 20 49ers (US National Championship, with teams coming in from Mexico, Canada and Japan)
