St. Francis Spring
Updated 23 March, 1998

Although the west coast 505 season has gotten off to a slow start due to bad
weather the San Francisco city front came through in true form this past
weekend with clear skys and solid wind. Six races were sailed over the 14th and
15th of March in a wide range of conditions. Attending the regatta were long
time 505-ers such as Tom Poore and Stewart Park, and new rock stars such as
Andy Beckman sailing with Steve Bartz. and Paul Kerner sailing with Bruce
Tilley. Bruce Edwards showed up with his brand new waterat sailing with his
long time partner Dave Shelton. Saturday started out with light westerly winds.
and a transitioning tide. The first race was a 2 lap windward leeward and
started with most boats heading for the shore to try to get in the growing ebb
current. Mike and Howard got there first and lead the entire race. Dave and
Bruce were second and Stewart and Tom were third. By the 2nd race the wind had
built to 15 knots and we had a triangle windward leeward. Mike and Howard were
able to use there reaching speed to again win the race. with again Dave and
Bruce in second and Stewart and Tom in third. A 2 lap windward leeward course
was used for the third race and the wind had increased to 18 knots, and become
quite shifty. At the top mark Stewart and Tom lead with Dave and Bruce hot on
there heels. by the leeward mark Mike and Howard managed to sneak into 2nd and
stay there until the finish.

Day 2 was again clear and light air for the first race. Again the course was a
2 lap windward leeward. the wind droped just before the start causing many of
the teams to not make the start, including the series leaders. Alex Mehran and
Jerry Woan lead at the first mark. During the race the wind steadily increased.
Dave and Bruce turned on the beefcake motors and took the gun, with Mike and
Howard working back to 2nd, and Stewart and Tom finished in third. The wind
filled in quickly to about 20 knots. Race 5 was a 2 lap triangle. The big Santa
Cruz boys took an early lead, but Mike and Howard were able to pass them on the
last reach. However the extreme obesity of the Shelton/Edwards team was too
much for the little boys from Long Beach, and Shelton/Edwards took the race.
With a tie going into the last race the stage was set for a good battle for the
last race. Again a 2 lap triangle was used, and the wind was now blowing 25.
Dave and Bruce, with their new boat and lots of fat motored to a huge lead at
the first weather mark. Stewart and Tom were next, and then Mike and Howard.
The first reach was a blast with the 25 knot wind and waves from the ebb tide,
it was quite a scary ride. Dave and Bruce saw some windsurfers catching some
big air on some ferry wakes. Feeling cocky with their big lead they thought
that they would the same. They might have made it if they did not try that
forward loop; they crashed and burned hard. Stewart and Tom lead at the jybe
mark, but Mike and Howard passed them on the second reach (another scorcher)
and remained in the lead for the rest of the race to take the regatta. .
complete results are below.

Again the St Fancis Yacht Club did a super job of running the event. and a good
time was had by all.

Mike Martin


