https://www.sail-world.com/news/282613/505-World-Championship-in-Adelaide-Day-4

Wireless Communications International 505 World Championship at Adelaide Sailing Club Day 4

by Jordan Spencer 6 Jan 19:26 UTC

2-7 January 2025

Conditions for day 4 of the Wireless Communications International 505
World Championships were windy. The forecast was for 20-25kn South East
-South Freshening to 30 knots late in the day.

We expected the strongest part of the breeze to be further offshore. And
for the most part, that was the case, however, the strong wind pushing
    against an outgoing tide, led to very lumpy and challenging
    conditions on the water.

Race 6 started with the wind at 175, the course length was 1.4nm. The
first start was abandoned after a large shift. There were two separate
wind lines across the course, with the wind at the top mark 150 and at
the bottom 200. The course was moved further out to sea and set again at
175. The fleet started in plenty of wind, 18-20kn+. Most of the fleet
started mid gate in right phase pressure. The pathfinder and a couple of
friends headed right. The leaders emerged from the early mid line,
tacking to port on a big left shift. Initially Chris Nicholson and
Charlie Wyatt looked good, but Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne went
further gaining a big lead ahead of a chasing group of 6 boats. Pete and
Luke looked untroubled until most of the way up the second beat when
they seemed to have an issue. They still lead at the second top mark,
but were passed by several boats on the run. Nicho and Charlie breaking
through with their first win, followed by Nic Baird and Eric Anderson
and Jan Saugmann, and Camel Johnston.

Race 7 started in slightly lighter winds, maybe 15-20kn with the top
mark at 165. Length was again 1.4nm. The fleet was evenly spread across
the gate. The early starters again seemed to gain the advantage,
particularly those that went in deep to the left corner, as they found
a big left shift. Nic Baird and Eric Anderson led around the top mark,
chased by Nicholas and Payne, plus a fleet of boats. The breeze picked
up on the second beat and Baird and Anderson extended their lead. Again,
near the top of the beat there was a big left shift, which closed the
fleet on that side of the course down on the leader slightly. The final
run was a challenge, gybing in big winds and flat water loading up the
boats and challenging rudders. Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn who had
charged through upwind to gain second capsized, Nathan Batchelor and Sam
Pascoe who were in fourth broke their rudder. The action behind left the
leaders untroubled. Post race, Baird and Anderson said the conditions
were a lot like what they sailed in at home, just a little lighter
winds, and the water was warmer. Second was Nicholas and Payne, with
third being Chris Nicholson and Charlie Wyatt.

The strong performances of Nicholson/Wyatt and Baird/Anderson on the day
saw them jump up the leaderboard. But the overall lead is still held by
Nicholas and Payne. They have a 6 point gap on locals Sandy Higgins and
Paul Marsh. The challenging conditions led to many retirements
yesterday, much of it because of broken gear. The wind is supposed to
abate tomorrow, but there is still plenty shaking the trees late at
night as this report is being written. Tomorrow is our final day.

