2000 Canadian Championships, Kingston
July 1-3, 2000
Kingston Yacht Club, Kingston, Ontario
By Michael Hoffman

Fourteen American and ten Canadian 505 teams arrived at Kingston Yacht
Club to partake in the 2000 Canadian Championships on July 1-3. However,
this was not just a sailing regatta. When I arrived in the parking lot
early Saturday morning I heard more talk about the hockey challenge
between Canada and the USA to take place on Sunday evening than I did
about sailing. Congratulations to Tim Collins and Bill Smith who
dominated this event both on and off the ice.

The wind was already building nicely as people rigged their boats
Saturday morning. After the skipper's meeting we headed to the race
course which was only a couple minutes sail as the wind was coming from
the south west at approximately 12 to 15 knots. We sailed two long
Olympic courses in ideal, full out trapezing conditions. The wind was
steady with very few shifts to be found.

Saturday night found us at one of the Boyd's infamous "world's biggest
garage parties". Plenty of lasagne, garlic bread, salad and dessert was
enjoyed by all. The hero of the day was definitely Tylor Moore who
purchased the barley refreshments (before crossing the border) as,
apparently, the Brewer's Retail took the Canada day holiday a little too
seriously and was not open for business.

Already by Sunday morning at 9:00 the wind was blowing over 10 knots. It
was approximately the same direction as Saturday only having shifted 20
degrees to the right allowing sailors again to be on the race course
only minutes after launching their boats. We sailed three Olympic
courses in some what shiftier conditions than the day before. The wind
built to a high of ~18 knots during the second race and then died off by
the end of the third race. The race committee showed excellent judgment
in not going for a world's course for race number three, and we were off
the water before 2 p.m.

Sunday evening at 7:00 was the showdown at the Kinsmen hockey centre;
Team Canada versus team USA. Those that were not too tired from the
on-water activities had a chance to completely wear themselves out on
the ice. The American squad powered by MVPs Tim Collins and Dave Stetson
proved to be too much for the Canadians as team USA came out on top
winning by a score of 4-2 (or 5-2 depending who you talk to). We are
hoping for another match in New Bedford as great fun was had by all.
Those not playing hockey enjoyed a buffet at the Brew Pub, and were
joined by some of the hockey players after their game.

Unfortunately the weather did not cooperate on Monday as there was no
wind but plenty of fog. Racing was called off at noon allowing people to
pack up and head for home. (Another excellent call by the Race
Committee.)

The 505 fleet would like to welcome Eric Taberdal and Bernard Pero who
have purchased Parker #6201. Eric and Bernard made the journey from
Montreal and were having a great time in the breeze at Kingston. They
were even seen coming into the dock between races to make adjustments to
their rig. We would also like to welcome Angus Ross who was sailing in
his first Canadians with his new(ish) Rondar.

The prize for the oldest combined crew age went to Graham Alexander and
Dave Stetson who rang in at 112 putting us younger fellows to shame for
having aching muscles!

The Race Committe headed up by Peter Shell and supported by a good
portion of the Kingston Shark fleet did an outstanding job! The reaches
were perfect and we were not kept waiting around between races. We hope
to see them at future 505 events in Kingston.

Finally, very many thanks to Kingston Yacht Club and the regattta
organizers Jeff & Florence Boyd, Steve & Barbara Yates as well as Renka
& Adam Guessing for the scoring and all others who chipped in to make
this a truly outstanding event. This is my 7th season in the 505 and
I have never had so much fun as I did at this year's Canadians. I look
forward to seeing everyone at the next event and don't forget to pack
your skates!
