ntario 505 Championships
July 29-30, 2000
Outer Harbour Centreboard Club
Toronto, ON
Editor's Note: A big thank you to Angus for running this, and for
writing the report as well! I was sorry to miss it. Hugh

By Angus Ross

Lake Ontario at the end of July is not normally noted for good wind, but
this year (as with so much of the weather) has been very different. As
in prior years it was a joint regatta with the Contender fleet (9 boats)
so a good fleet was on hand for the starts, including the
Shaeffer/Seiple boat who did the long drive from Ohio. Saturday’s races
were set out on Lake Ontario, giving a great view of the gybe mark to
spectators on Toronto Island and the wind stayed up at flat-out
trapezing for most of the day with some wave action to boot. Renka and
Adam Gesing, with what seemed to be afterburners on their boat, got
bullets in all four races, only really being threatened in the fourth
race by the Ross/McClachlan team until a jammed jib cleat on a tack
showed how much a 505 slows down when half full of water! The
Agrell/Doell team showed good speed in the first three races before old
age (sorry Mike!) and the need for his crew to get back to his
infanticipating wife caused an early return to port. Behind them the
positions changed from race to race and at the end of the day three
boats were tied for 3rd with two more in striking distance. The evening
was highlighted by an Afghan dinner catered by the Afghan Women’s
Association.

Day two saw moderate but strengthening winds with a threat of severe
thunderstorms and the race committee exercised good judgment in moving
the racing to the Outer Harbour where safety is only 5 minutes away
rather than half an hour from out on the lake. Adam and Renka put a lock
on first place with their fifth bullet and then Adam switched places
with the Mario Angers while Mike Agrell sailed the full day with Neil
Smith. (One great thing about the 505 fleet is the willingness of the
better sailors to improve the skills of those lower down the fleet). The
team of Balinski/Hoffer took full advantage of the changes and sailed to
two wins in the final two races to wrap up second place overall with
Ross/McClachlan just beating out Smith/Smith/Agrell for third. Just
after we all got ashore and packed up, the heavens opened on the
Albacore fleet which had just headed out (who says God doesn’t play
favourites!).

Overall a great two days of racing and thanks to OHCC for putting on
a well-run regatta with warm hospitality. We’re looking forward to next
year’s Eastern Canadians at the same venue.

Angus (aross@soremagrp.com)

