https://www.505.ca/2014-505-canadian-open-and-canadian-championships/

2014 505 Canadian Open and Canadian Championships

Posted on July 31, 2014 by DaveAdams

July 11-13, 2014, Kitsilano Yacht Club

A forecast of sunny and hot weather attracted a number of boats from BC
and Washington regions to compete in the 2014 Canadian Championships
hosted by Fleet One as part of KYC’s annual Invitational Regatta. A good
time was had by all, with the weather turning out as expected, and the
stronger westerlies on Sunday more than making up for the light airs on
Saturday.

The event started on Friday with a bit of a practice race, where 6 boats
went out for a tune-up around the bay in a nice breeze on the sunny
afternoon. A fixed mark and two anchored vessels and a smooth rabbit
start alleviated the need for any on-water race committee support. After
the practice race, there was a BBQ at the club, as more competitors
shored up and rigged their boats Friday evening

With 14 boats registered and rigged for the noon start on Saturday, the
regatta got underway with a very low tide and light and variable winds
on a crowded bay hosting many other events and fleets. Brent Foxall, the
Principle Race Officer, had to work hard to squeeze in three races on
Saturday by moving the race course around the bay chasing the wind. The
tides were strong which alson had a large effect on the racing. The day
ended with with a different winner in each race, Phil Cragg and Reto
Corfu taking race 1, Carol and Carl Buchan taking race 2, and Adam
Gooderham and Alec Francis racing the Club’s Co-Op boat taking race 3.
At the end of Day 1, the Buchan’s were leading the Open Competition and
Phil and Reto were in second and top Canadian leading the race for the
Canadian Championship title within the regatta. Lee Laney and Paul Von
Gray were in third place with even points.

Day two started an hour earlier, but looked a lot more promising with
a true westerly building. Again there was a very low tide and very
strong currents to make things interesting in calling the lay lines and
at mark roundings. With the better wind conditions, 5 races were run on
Sunday. The lighter crews were able to gain advantage wire running in
the first 4 races of the day. The last race of the day had winds up
enough that everyone could wire run, allowing things to even out a bit
more for the heavier crews. In the end, Carol and Carl Buchan were able
to demonstrate superior skill in the light and challenging conditions to
win the 2014 Canadian open, for their 3rd time. Phil Cragg and Reto
Corfu were able to hold on to second place overall to earn a 5th
Canadian Championship title for Phil and a 3rd Canadian Championship
title for Reto. Lee Laney and Paul Von Gray from Seattle and Whidby
Island rounded out the top three, only one point behind after the drop.

