https://www.sail-world.com/news/296244/505-Euro-Cup-at-Fraglia-Vela-Riva-overall

505 Euro Cup at Fraglia Vela Riva, Lake Garda, Italy - Overall
by Mike Holt 20 May 13:03 UTC
14-16 May 2026

Day three at the 505 Euro Cup on Lake Garda and again overcast skies and
the threat of rain in the forecast did not make for high expectations
for the 43 boats from 10 countries. However, as he had all event, the
PRO knows the weather and had selected 11am as the start time for race
six of the series. Once again the wind was coming from the North, but it
was very streaky with big shifts and holes for the unwary or unlucky...

Once again the start was a very busy place to be and a left shift on the
gun had all the fleet tacking to port and initially the boats on the
left looked good. However in the conditions we had there was no time to
celebrate as the wind would fade and favour the other side.

By the top the right was winning and the left was moving very slowly.
This lead to a big decision, straight spinnaker set into less breeze or
try to gybe and navigate the traffic. Those that figured it out did well
and the Swiss team of Caroline and Philippe Jacot did and extended to
win from another of the fleets impressive female skippers, AJ Conrads
and Jon Bell of the USA. Rounding out an International flavour in third
were the Canadians, Bob Tennat and Steve Bourdow.

Race seven and the wind was finally coming from the South and
freshening, the fleet got away in the best conditions of the week and
revealed in good breeze 505 sailing. Mike Sims and Carl Gibbon of the UK
got the better of American's Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel on the first
downwind to take the win, Mike and Rob 2nd and German team Micki
Daisenberger and Johannes Tellen third.

Going into the last race it was a tight affair at the top and really
anyone of six teams had a shot, but Brits Paul Brotherton and James
Fawcett had a narrow advantage over Mike and Carl, with the rest needing
some help...

So, to the last race, still southerly, but down a bit in strength and
shifting around a fair bit. This time AJ and Jon made no mistakes to
take a win that their speed had been suggesting all week, second were
Roger Gilbert and Ian Mitchell of the UK, with Howie Hamlin and Peter
Alarie of the US taking third.

Importantly for the overall standings, Paul and James rounded out the
regatta with a fifth to Mike and Carl's ninth to give them the regatta
overall. Mike and Carl just held off Mike and Rob, who similarly had
just a point on AJ and Jon. Rounding out the top five was Ted Conrads
and Brian Haines.

With just six weeks to go to the Worlds was this an indication of who is
fast? Winners of round 1 of the Euro Cup Jan Phillip Hoffman and Felix
Brockerhoff were missing so we shall have to see!

Despite a poor forecast and some serious doubts from sailors, Riva
delivered and a great time and some high quality racing was had by all.
Many thanks to the race team, Fragile Vela Riva and Blue Garden for
a great event!

-----------------------------------

https://www.sail-world.com/news/296185/505-Euro-Cup-at-Fraglia-Vela-Riva-Day-2

505 Euro Cup at Fraglia Vela Riva, Lake Garda, Italy - Day 2
by Mike Holt 16 May 07:36 UTC
14-16 May 2026

Day 2 of the 505 Euro Cup in Riva on the stunning Northern end of Lake
Garda saw another cold, wet day. I am sure most of the fleet feared that
we would not get to race, but around 3pm the PRO informed the fleet that
he intended to start us at 4pm.

So damp wetsuits were put on, covers were pulled off of soggy boats and
we launched in a gentle Northerly breeze. Once again he had it right and
2 races were held in around 7-9 knots.

Race one of the day and four of the series saw a shake up at the front
of the fleet. Once again getting off of the crowded start line was
a challenge and those who did it well benefited greatly. None more so
than Brits Ben McGrane and James Ross who took the win from French team
of Phillipe Boîte and his son Alexander, with German team of Frederick
Schaal and Felix Diesch. Proving that their first race win was no fluke,
Ben and James proceeded to repeat in race 5 taking another bullet. This
time from compatriots Paul Brotherton and James Fawcett in second and
another GB team, Michael Sims and Carl Gibbon in third.

The leaderboard had now been well shuffled and in a high scoring event,
showing the depth of the fleet and quality of the racing. Ben and James
now top the leaderboard, tied on points with Paul and James and just
ahead of Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel. With potentially 3 more races there
is lots of opportunity for more changes at the top and hopefully a good
last day of racing ahead.

-----------------------------------

https://www.sail-world.com/news/296148/505-Euro-Cup-at-Fraglia-Vela-Riva-Day-1

505 Euro Cup at Fraglia Vela Riva, Lake Garda, Italy - Day 1
by Mike Holt 15 May 08:40 UTC
14-16 May 2026

Day one brought conditions that most competitors would have preferred
not to have seen. Cold temperatures and heavy rain. At the morning
briefing the Race Team told competitors that they saw a window for
racing between 1 and 3pm. I'm pretty sure that looking out onto the
lake, no one believed him. However, at noon the race team left the dock
and headed out and against all our instincts we all followed out.

Turned out he was correct and we ended up having 3 good races in a 10-15
knot Northerly wind. Not classic Garda, but good none the less. With 43
boats from 10 countries on a crowded start line, considerable starting
challenges befell the fleet. Race 1 saw an abandonment with a minute to
go when a big shift and an over amped fleet were clearly going to be
over the line. After a restart the race was on, Americans AJ Conrads and
Jon Bell in their new boat set the pace to cross first, but they along
with 11 other boats were scored UFD. That left Howie Hamlin and Peter
Alarie from the USA to take the win from British team Mike Sims and Carl
Gibbons and German Father and son team Tim and Finn Boger.

Race 2 followed a similar pattern, busy start, plenty of boats UFD'd but
Brits Roger Gilbert and Ian Mitchell controlled the race from the first
mark to take the win, AJ and Jon again going well to take second and
Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel from the USA in third. Race 3 was started very
promptly with the wind up a bit, rain getting heavier.
Australian/British team of Mike Quirk and Tim Needham held off the
challenge of British team Paul Brotherton and James Fawcett, with Mike
and Carl having another good race to take 3rd.

After 3 races, a very muddled leader board sees the consistency of Mike
and Rob leading from Roger and Ian and Paul and James third. Plenty of
teams will be looking to get to race 5 and lose their UFD from the
score, very much all still to play for!
