1996 St. Francis Fall Dinghy Regatta

Over the weekend of Sept. 14,15 St. Francis Yacht club held its annual Fall
Dingy Regattas, for the 5o5s and some other lesser classes.

Saturday brought classic City Front conditions. The first race was sailed in 10
to 12 knots with a hard flood tide outside and slack water along the shore.
Mike Martin and Howard Hamlin played the shifts up the shore to get a slight
lead over Dave Shelton and Bruce Edwards at the weather mark. They steadily
increased their lead to win race one. Uli Coblenz and Danny Thompson got by
Shelton & Edwards on the last beat to take second.

By race 2, the breeze had already kicked in at about 15 to 18 knots with
similar current. With Big Boy boat speed Shelton and Edwards rounded the top
mark in first, but got rolled by Martin & Hamlin on the first reach. Up the
next beat, the Nicro-press failed on Shelton & Edwards' forestay, and they lost
their brand new rig (with major style points I might add). This left Martin &
Hamlin to win the race with Park & Poor in second and Coblenz & Thompson in
third.

Race 3 treated the fleet to some 20+ knot wind. Stewart Park & Tom Poor showed
who was tops in the breeze by winning the race going away. Greg (moondog) Gump
& Gary Ruggles were second and Coblenz & Thompson were third.

Sunday morning brought rain and shifty southerly winds. The weekend weenie
award went to Steve Smith and Craig Perez who packed up their boat claiming "we
don't sail in the rain" Editor - with all the time and money we spend trying to
get cold and wet, I find this hard to believe....... Well they missed out
because the sun came out, and the wind shifted to the west for some great
racing.

Race 4: shifty wind coming off the shore with the lightest flooding current
lead to some very tactical racing. Rob Waterman & Jim Maloney lead after the
first beat. Martin & Hamlin took the lead by sailing further into the favorable
current on the run, and held on to win the race.

Race 5 showed similar conditions with Martin & Hamlin taking a early lead;
however, when they broke a spectra trapeze line on the final beat, Park & Poor
passed them to take the race.

Race 6 took the top teams for a spin when two lead boats Park & Poor, and
Coblenz & Thompson sailed an incorrect leeward mark. this left Waterman and
Maloney in the lead. Martin and Hamlin passed them on run for the lead. On the
last beat however, Waterman & Maloney split right into the adverse current,
caught a shift, and won the race, moving them into third overall.


