Hampton Trapeze 1996

The largest Southern Bay (Chesapeake) turnout in years were joined by four West
River teams and one SSA team for the 1996 Hampton Trapeze, May 18-19, at the
Hampton Yacht Club. The organizer's plans to run 8 races over the two days -
for the 505 class - were abandoned when thick fog allowed only one race to be
run on Saturday, and the wind died with only three more completed on Sunday.
Who would have thought that the sea breeze would not fill in on a light air
day, with cold water and 101 degree temperatures on land!

Long time 505 sailor Gary Bodie was brought out of retirement to race on
Saturday, and ace crew Kevin Eley (who sailed with Gary) was racing on Sunday.

Race 1

Marginal trapezing 8 knot breeze. Macy Nelson/Jesse Falsone nailed the start
near the RC boat, and were among the first boats to go left looking for
favorable current further offshore. They forced Henry and Doug Amthor further
right, but Amthor's found a little more current, or a shift, and came back
ahead. Meanwhile, Gary Bodie/Ali Meller went inshore, with less favorable
current, but hoping for some shifts. When the boats converged at the weather
mark, Amthor's were level with Bodie/Meller, but on starboard, about 10 boats
low of the starboard layline. Bodie/Meller ducked, and then tacked onto
starboard just short of the layline. Amthor's were forced to duck in turn,
leaving Bodie/Meller first at the mark, and leading down the run. Amthor's went
further offshore near the bottom of the run, into slightly more adverse
current, but sailed better angles into the leeward mark, and pulled into the
lead. However, Bodie/Meller refused to fold, and ground them down on the 2nd
beat, to lead at the windward mark. Amthors came on strong down the run, but
were unable to close on Bodie/Meller. Jim Englert/Thad Melton were 3rd, Ken
Elliott/Alan Kilgore 4th, Macy Nelson/Jesse Falsone 5th and Bob O'Brien/Betsy
O'Brien 6th.

Race 2

In thickening fog, the second race was started. Bodie/Meller had a better
start, with Amthors squeezing high to windward to keep their air clear.
Elliott/Kilgore, Bodie/Meller and the Amthors all went left waiting for the
knock. In the growing fog, the leaders were happy to find the first windward
mark, and set off down the run looking for an leeward mark near an RC boat. By
this time, the fog was thick enough that you could not see a competitor 20
boatlengths away. When the mark appeared, Jim Englert/Thad Melton had the best
angle for it, and were first to round, with Bodie/Meller in hot pursuit, and
Amthors inches behind them. The three leaders raced up the beat, timing tacks
carefully, but could not find the windward mark again. As Jim Enlgert said, "we
knew we had gone too far right when we heard cars on the Hampton bridge!" Macy
Nelson/Jesse Falsone were the first to find the mark, but the race was
abandoned by the RC, as they could no longer see the pin end of the line, and
racing had become ridiculous.

The fleet sailed in, discussed light air mast bend, and adjourned to the club
bar and later a local restaurant.

Race 2 - second try - Sunday morning

The forecast was for 101 degrees in Hampton, and a breeze building to 15 knots.
In a light breeze, a race long duel between the Amthors and Meller/Kevin Eley
was decided on the last leg when Meller/Eley gybe set and sailed lower and
faster than Amthors - using a brief puff - to get into the lead for the first
time in the race. Meller/Eley crossed ahead by 3 boatlengths. Englert/Melton
were 3rd again, with Elliott/Kilgore 4th again. The O'Brien's beat
Nelson/Falsone for 5th.

Race 3

In stronger current, some competitors went right, looking for current relief in
shallower water. The left looked good initially, but as the breeze softened,
the boats inshore came out ahead. Elliott/Kilgore won the race, the Amthors
were 2nd (their third 2nd in a row). Bob and Betsy O'Brien had very good speed
and brilliant tactics, to lead this race for awhile, and finish 3rd.
Englert/Melton were 4th and Meller/Eley 5th, with Nelson/Falsone 6th.

Race 4

In the same wind and more current, the fleet split up the beat, with some teams
opting for maximum current relief, while others chased puffs and shifts in the
middle and left. However, it was the boats that went left or middle left that
came out ahead, what with a little more breeze and a back. Englert/Melton led
at every mark, with Elliott/Kilgore 2nd, Nelson/Falsone 3rd, Paul Heads/Chris
Ryan (in a boat called Ba Ba Kiwi!) 4th. Meller/Eley and Amthor/Amthor, the
boats that went furthest right, were 5th and 8th respectively. Fred Sage/Glen
Gates sailed Turbo Dog, borrowed from Pete Wallio, to 6th.

Race 5

In even less breeze and with the current just ripping, everyone tried to go
right, while boats trying to clear their air stacked up further and further
left. Englert/Melton came out of the right early, and led the race. The breeze
got lighter and lighter, eventually not allowing the boats near the mark to go
fast enough to gain on the mark. Several boats kept sailing past the layline in
the far right corner, hoping to get high enough they could make it round the
mark, while most of the fleet was closer to the mark, trying to get enough
speed to gain on it, and watching the dark water further to the left, where the
seabreeze looked to be finally developing. After what seemed like hours of
drifting, Englert/Melton got close enough to the mark that a couple of quick
roll tacks got them around. The O'Briens were only a few boat lengths behind
but could not get up to the mark. Meller/Eley, Nelson/Falsone, Heads/Ryan and
other teams were strung out downcurrent of the windward mark. Finally the RC
took mercy on everyone and abandoned the race at 3:00PM.

Though he only raced one race (the second he started was abandoned), Gary Bodie
has clearly not lost his touch! Someone should get a boat and call Gary and
tell him to drive. Same goes for Kevin Eley. Show up with a boat, and call
Kevin.

Bob and Betsy O'Brien were going scary fast in the light air and flat water.
Only a last race 7th prevented them from beating a three time North American
Champion in this event! They were in second when the last race was abandoned.

Jim Englert/Thad Melton recently converted 7346 to a launcher boat, and feel
they are faster upwind in that configuration. They have always been fast
downwind.

After several years of Northen Bay boats winning Hampton Trapeze and sometimes
Hampton Annual, several Northern Bay competitors thought they had figured out
the "local knowledge" factors in Hampton Roads. This weekend proved them wrong.
In consolation, local aces the Amthors were wrong several times as well, and
the last race was abandoned with regatta winners Elliott/Kilgore firmly in last
place, furthest from the windward mark, and furthest from any sea breeze. So
much for having Hampton figured out!

It was great to see Dave Dussia back in a 505, and great to see new 505 sailors
Paul Heads, Chris Ryan, Greg Schuster, Fred Sage, and Glen Gates in the
regatta.

Neither Pete Wallio, nor A.J. Piccillo were able to sail, as they were
recovering from a major car accident on the 301 bridge. The suburban they were
driving - and towing a Melges 24 with - was hit head on by a large pickup truck
towing a race car. The combined speed was estimated to be over 80 miles an
hour. Everyone in both vehicles survived, though after three weeks, several are
not able to go back to work. Both tow vehicles, the Melges 24, and the race car
were completely destroyed. The pictures were spectacular! There did not seem to
be any structural problems with the Melges 24 keel (unlike two of the Melges
30s), as it held together and sliced through part of the Melges hull like a
knife through butter! A.J. broke three ribs and was still very sore.

It is always great going to Hampton. This year the weather was not very
cooperative, but you always get good race committees, and you always enjoy
yourself in Hampton's bars and restaurants with the 505 gang, even if you
didn't get to plane around the course.

I still hold the consecutive cartwheel record!
