Report from Dave Stetson on
the 1996 Bean Blossom Classic


This regatta occured October, 1996 on Lake Lemon near Bloomington, IN

The weekend of October 7 and 8 saw the inaugural running of The Hoosier
Regatta, sponsored by the Indiana University Yacht Club. A bit of history:

Years ago, Lake Lemon and the IUYC represented a small hot-bed of 505 racing. A
few people like Graham Alexander know what it was like. I sure don't! But
anyway, a well-worn old Butler 505 has been hanging around the club since those
early days. A couple of years ago, two members (Geoff Cashman and Mike
Goldstein) decided to see what the ol' boat could do. Supported by the club
supervisor, Art Mindheim, the club have since added four solid but
sort-of-classic boats to their fleet: two of them more recent Ballengers, one
4000-series Parker, and one 4000-series Rondar. So given some critical mass,
the club decided it was time to sponsor a regatta.

The five IU boats were joined by three visitors for this experiment in
regattaship, and the club arranged for ideal conditions, at least ideal to
puddle sailors. I arrived at the club Friday night in driving rain. I found a
space in their drysail area to park my car/boat and curled up in the back of
the car to sleep to the sound of rain on the roof. I awoke temporarily at about
6:00 AM to check the weather. I realized the rain had stopped; off to the
northeast was a thick cloud line, but the sky was crystal clear overhead. At
about 7:30, the IU sailors arrived to set up their boats. Around about 9:30,
the other two visitors wheeled in. Of course, coffee and donuts were made
available to ensure our alertness. We were not in much hurry because the lake
was a mirror, but as the skippers' meeting got under way, a breeze started to
fill in from the southwest.

By the time we got to the starting line, there was a 20 knot breeze blowing
with puffs to 25+... and flat water. Lake Lemon is, I would guess, about 5
miles long, maybe 1.25 miles wide at its widest and divided into three basins.
We sailed in the middle basin. The race committee had set up about 400 yds from
the northeastern shore and had set a windward mark about 0.75 miles upwind in
the mouth of a small bay. On the start, the choice was to go west along the
northern shore or to go south across the lake and to the eastern edge of the
bay. Those that went west made out big time. I was over early, but the race
committee did not fly a flag. I was a good boy and went back anyway.
Thereafter, I went sort of south. Alexander/Koenig were to the windward mark
first and were away on the broad reaching second leg considerably before the
second boat. When I reached the first mark in something like 7th, I performed
my first capsize of four suffered that morning. (Only two were while racing,
thankfully.) Newcomers: When it is blowing, it is imperative that the boom vang
be eased before rounding the windward mark. In the past, I had Mike Agrell to
remind me.

This event on Lake Lemon became a good education for my novice crew (in 505s),
Jim Wellington. Perhaps I'm beyond learning. Anyway, down the first reach, the
wind was puffy and veering due to a headland close aboard to starboard, causing
some of us to jibe to reach the reach mark. The second reaching leg was too
close to carry, but for the relatively inexperienced, the sleigh ride to the
leeward mark was a great new experience. I don't remember very much of the next
windward leg. I was busy. I do remember seeing Alexander/Koenig gain a leg on
the fleet; I remember Mike Goldstein and Jason Breedon being hard on the heels
of the Bretons (from my vantage point) and I managed to pass a couple of boats.
But let me point out: the Butler, which I passed, was being sailed by Barrett
Rhoades (11 years old, 100 lbs.) and his sister Christina (13 years old?, 110
lbs) and the boat had no effective boom vang, mainsheet cleat, or jib sheeting
system. These kids managed to keep up with the fleet in winds of 25+ mph and
they looked great doing it.

OK, so I don't remember too much detail. I don't have Ali's ability to remember
ten races, leg-for-leg. I do remember that we had two races before lunch, that
lunch was kindly delivered to us at the clubhouse, and that we had three races
in the afternoon. The wind built a little into the afternoon and the shifts and
puffs made tactics very interesting on all legs. We all had some fine screaming
three-sail reaches, but Graham did most of the screaming.

After racing that evening, the IUYC supplied burgs and dogs, and other
comestibles. Jason Breedon's uncles, cousin, and friend provided entertainment.
There guys are an EXCELLENT local bluegrass group that should be shared with
the World!

Sunday morning started like Saturday: clear blue sky and zero wind. The race
committee sent us out in the light and variable northerly breeze that started
to appear. The first race was started as a reach to the "windward" mark after
the course was reset a couple of times. I was late to the start because Jim had
parked his car where he oughtn't and it wasn't there in the morning. We took
advantage of the fact that we were late, that we had way on, that we were
coming from leeward on close-hauled, and that the boats above us had set their
spinnakers (heh,heh). Once we had cleared the fleet as the easternmost boat and
set our spinnaker to reach down to the mark with clear wind, a solid westerly
filled in. Bah! This shortened race became pretty much a parade at the
"windward" mark.

With the new westerly, the race committee set a good course that still had its
interests. The windward mark was fairly close to the windward shore, so there
were lots of shifts on the first leg. Somehow, (maybe it was our light weight
(Jim weighs 135 lbs wet and I am just 155) and our lightening reflexes, but in
both the last two races, Jim and I were first to the windward mark. We usually
held off the closest challengers for the reaches, but we lost Alexander/Koenig
and Bretons on the subsequent windward. A/K and the Bs usually went to opposite
sides of the course and we couldn't cover both; the middle-of-the-road proved
slower. For the final windward, I deduced that the stronger puffs were on the
south side of the course, so I stayed to the south of the Bretons and nipped
them by two feet at the finish.

Overall, the IUYC put on a very enjoyable event. This group of sailors is
enthusiastic and ready to join the fray. Because the boats are owned by IU,
they had to do some politicing to get leave to travel with them next year. We
will see at least some of these folks at future events. Considering the short
505 experience of the sailors, they handled the boats very well in trying
conditions. Geoff Cashman had some moments of brilliance, but break-downs put a
damper on his elation. Mike and Charles were steady and competitive, Jason and
Angela were always lurking near the front, and Andrew and Andy were always
crossing somebody or other. At one point, Geoff's crew Chris was going probably
as fast as he had ever gone in a sailboat, but he kept asking for more speed
while Geoff was blinded by the spray off of Chris' heel. A real 5-ohing
attitude.

David L. Stetson
stetson.1@osu.edu
505 USA7790
