West River Sailing Club Spring I Regatta
30 April, 1 May 1994

Wow what a great event! The first half of the Railriders-sponsored home
and away series between New England and the Mid-Atlantic regions
attracted sixteen teams from as far as Kingston, Marblehead, Hampton and
Chicago to participate in the first east coast 505 regatta of 1995. The
level of competition was high (including the top four boats from last
summer's NA's), and deep (5 races - 5 winners). Racing was close (on
fairly short Olympic courses), and tough (one race winner was last in
a race)! Partying was plentiful (thanks to a huge barbeque dinner
complete with keg) and fierce (LOTS of good examples of this come to
mind, but you get the point). As far as I can tell the excitement level
for this regatta had been building for several weeks at least, as
several boats have been practicing at WRSC for this summer's worlds in
England, and those that were not organized/motivated enough to get down
for those sessions (yours truly leading the pack in disorganized
enthusiasm) had heard just about enough stories and were all fired up to
go racing. Course, the real firing up came Friday night as a huge hoard
of mostly New Englanders converged on this apartment in Annapolis whose
owner Carl Smit had somehow convinced that it would be a good idea for
4, no 6, no 9, no about 10 or so (actually 14) 505 sailors to stay
there.

Saturday morning did finally arrive however and it was sunny, and warm
and ... and ... you guessed it, light. This was a big tease for those of
us who have been dreaming about ripping around in a 505 all winter.
Actually, to be honest, the ride out to the race course was pretty fun,
sort of a broad reach in pretty good breeze. Once we were there though,
it was a day full of crew gymnastics - the conditions where you, the
crew, have to dive from the trapeze to the middle of the boat then leap
back out on the trap while your skipper is panicking and cursing and
otherwise freaking out about the boats on the other side of the course
that are inevitably "fully *&^$ing planing over " there!!!""

So with about 30 seconds before the first start, there was a group of
boats that bailed out hard, because they were directly downwind of the
pin and getting sucked even farther by the current. After jibing around
and ducking the entire fleet, there were about three boats who realized
"hey this isn't so bad -" we're laying the mark!". while most everyone
else was still trying to tack " onto port, these few boats that had
messed up the start were looking good. At the first mark it was
Breault/Hartmann (who deserve credit for being the only ones smart
enough to start on port on purpose), Gleason/Smit (who deserve credit
for being in the WORST position at the pin, and thereby for jibing out
first), followed by Meller/Fry (who deserve credit for starting on
starboard, tacking and reaching into the mark fast enough to be in third
anyway). The breeze got incredibly light as this race progressed and
places changed constantly.

Finally, the start of the second race brought some breeze. We were all
actually planing up the first leg. It was real shifty. Neal and Dave had
the start, tacked and crossed everyone. A big left shift at the end of
the beat pulled Meller/Fry and Gleason/Smit out of the doghouse and into
1 - 3 with Jeff Boyd/Martin tenHove and Dyson/Fowler in 2 - 4 at the
first mark respectively. Unfortunately, the breeze died in this race too
till the very end where progress against the substantial current became
difficult for a few minutes. Of course, immediately after deciding not
to sail another light race, the biggest breeze of the day fills in and
we all plane back to the beach. The ribs-chicken-beans-slaw-beer dinner
was incredible, as was the general level of story telling in the parking
lot. Eventually the gathering disbanded - sending groups to represent
the regatta at several local bars, and of course, leaving a detachment
behind to tend the lonely keg sitting in WRSC's walk- in refrigerator.

So Sunday morning it is pouring; there is much thunder and little wind.
A discussion gets going in the clubhouse; same old topics - World's,
getting new members, tuning, making new boats, making more boats
available for new members to get into the class - but discussed with
more enthusiasm - "the last " tank talk was awesome", "do we have 4, or
5 or 6 boats going to England this summer?", "World's in Hyannis! Right
on!"."

Finally, everyone dragged themselves out on the water to sail in light
to medium winds and steep steep waves. Painful, but good racing. Race
3 looked more like last summer's NA's with Macy Nelson/Pete Alarie,
Fowler/Dyson and Meller/Fry trading off the lead several times around
this short course and finishing within seconds of one another.

Race four was won by Phillips/Smith.

Race 5 was won by Nick Trotman/Dave "ironman" Kirkpatrick after they
nailed the pin end start.

Of course, as soon as we set our chutes for the ride in, this wall of
wind hits the course and suddenly, instead of pounding into waves
upwind, the fleet is skipping across them on a tight reach back to the
club. Most fun ride all weekend - it had me psyched for the next regatta
as soon as it hit! In a nutshell everything about this regatta was great
(except the weather). The concept of fewer regattas that EVERYONE goes
to is a great one and really makes the racing very very fun. On top of
it all WRSC has such an excellent attitude about dinghy racing which is
what really put this event over the top. In the end it was consistency
that paid (it always pays to consistently kick butt doesn't it?!) as Ali
Meller and John Fry won this event followed by Neal Fowler and Dave
Dyson in second and Macy Nelson/Pete Alarie in third.

The second half of the Railriders home and away series will be held at
the RIISA regatta on June 17-18 in Barrington RI.


Art Gleason
