https://505.ca/past-winners/2018-canadians/
2018 Canadian Championships


The 2018 Canadian 505 Championships were held September 8-9th 2018 at
the Kitsilano Yacht Club in Vancouver, BC

Regatta Report

10 5O5s from the Pacific Northwest and as far away as California made
the trek to Kitsilano Yacht Club in Vancouver this weekend for the
annual Canadian 5O5 Championship.  The competitors were met with the
first weather system of the Fall and light and variable wind from the
East and Southeast, coming onto the course over—and between the
buildings of—the city of Vancouver.  Stereotypical rain accompanied.
Really, it’s never like that in September here.   🙂   Nine races were
sailed over two days of racing Saturday and Sunday.

Five races on Saturday were held in light and variable conditions from
2-7 knots, with large shifts and pressure differentials. Local 505
heavyweight Phil Cragg and crew Curran started strong with a bullet in
race 1, but the variable conditions led to variable results for the
whole fleet.  There were 4 different race winners in 5 races, and every
boat at the top end of the fleet also registered a finish at the back of
the fleet. Passing lanes abounded.  As Phil put it, we were all playing
“Snakes and Ladders”.  Other race winners included Courtney Stark and
Tom Crawford from Washington, Mike Poulos and Jon Seestrom from
Bellingham, and Eric Coburn and crew from Bellingham. Bob Tennant and
Steve Bourdow sailed kind-of consistently to stay in the hunt.  At the
end of the day, Phil and Curran demonstrated their mastery of the local
conditions and led the fleet coming out of day 1, with Mike & Lee and
Bob & Steve tied for second behind them.

Competitors arrived at Kits YC on Sunday morning to similar conditions,
but slightly more wind.  Four races were sailed in 5-10 knots.  As with
the previous day’s racing, conditions were variable and with large
pressure differences, but the slightly stronger wind made holes a little
less deadly.  Jon Seestrom and Mike Poulos were new race winners in the
first race of the day, but the wind built just enough in races 2 and
3 to let Bob & Steve wire run and they took the next two races.  The
wind backed off to end the day and Courtney and Tom took their second
race of the regatta.

In the end, the two races of slightly more pressure were decisive.  The
half-Canadian and half-Californian crew of Bob & Steve were able to
catch up to Phil & Curran and tie them on points.  Bob & Steve ended up
winning on the countback.  A little further back on points but having
sailed a strong regatta, Courtney and Tom finished third.

As usual, the warmth and hospitality of the Canadian 505 contingent and
the Kitsilano Yacht Club made up for the inclement weather. Fun was had
by all in the difficult conditions.  Thanks to all the volunteers who
made the regatta possible, and we’ll all look forward to next year!

–Bob Tennant, CAN 9009
