Bermuda Race Week

After an absence of almost twenty years, the 505 class returned to Bermuda Race
Week. Four teams spent the week of April 26th in Bermuda - perhaps the nicest
place and the greatest place to sail I have ever been - and enjoyed themselves
immensely.

Though four 505s is not a large fleet (OK, it is a very very small fleet), we
very much enjoyed the sailing and racing. Non sailing wives, girlfriends and
babies enjoyed themselves every bit as much (for those of you thinking ahead,
taking the time and getting yourself and your 505 to a regatta is probably
rather easier if your family wants to go as much as you do).

The water is warm enough that one could sail without wetsuits. The colour of
the water is extraordinary - you could see the white sand bottom at 15-20 feet
or more - the white sand turns the gorgeous blue of the deeper water to
turquoise.

We had one reasonably windy day, one medium and one a little lighter. We
trapezed every day. It was sunny and in the low 70s each day. I cannot imagine
what one would wish to change to make the conditions more perfect.

505s sailed on the larger course in Great Sound, with the Etchells, IODs, J24s
and Tornados. This year, courses were windward leeward... Long legs.. 2 or 3
times around. Reaching courses were not used this year but I'm confident that
in somewhat larger numbers, the 505s would get courses more to our liking.

Billeting was available for everyone. The social events were excellent (though
perhaps slightly restrained if compared to those of a UK Nationals - Messrs.
Masterman and Barker... where were you when we needed you?); our hosts were
friendly, gracious, and eager to see 505s return to Bermuda.

It appears that there is currently interest in bringing about three or four
505s into Bermuda; perhaps a group purchase of similar used boats from the UK
(we are still short of used 505s in North America) can be arranged. Import
duties make new boats quite expensive in Bermuda, and those hoping to restart
the Bermuda 505 fleet would prefer a lower cost (and lower risk) approach,
initially.

I hope that with some support, we can have 3-4 505s in Bermuda in time for next
year's race week. Those of us who were there this year expect to return
(indeed, our wives/girlfriends made it quite clear to us that we would be
returning). If we can get those 3-4 local boats, and have perhaps 5-6 North
American 505s attend, we would be well on our way to both a reasonable fleet
size for Race Week, and the return of Bermuda as a 505 country. If anyone from
the UK or Europe could attend... so much the better.

With or without a local fleet (but rather better with), holding another 505
World Championship in Bermuda could be a possibility.....

OK, if you must know...

- Henry Amthor/Doug Amthor, USA 8012, won all 6 races.
- David Stetson/Ali Meller (or Ali Meller/David Stetson) USA 7678, had
  4 2nds and 2 3rds, good for 2nd overall.
- Barry Kuehl/Bruce Tilley, USA 8641, were 3rd.
- John Wyles, who sailed part of the week with the Bermuda 505 contact,
  James MacDonald, and part of the week with another Bermudian, ZIM
  8438, was the fastest upwind in breeze, leading at first weather marks
  in 2 of the 6 races, but two capsizes and a DNF due to crew injury
  pulled them down to 4th.

Ali Meller
5o5s 7200 & 8263
