Weymouth & Portland Sailing Academy, 22/23 July
Nic Powell reports:
The 505 class moved to the Weymouth over the weekend of 22/23rd July for
the final open meeting prior to next months European Championships. This
year the racing was run from the Weymouth and Portland Sailing Academy
in the old Naval base which proved to have excellent facilities.

On Saturday the sailors were greeted with an easterly force 5 and
sunshine. Two races were scheduled inside the harbour and it was once
again Ian Pinnell and Nick Powell who proved the boat to beat. Having
been asked by the race officer if they would step in as the gate boat
after Jim Berry had to return to shore to replace a ripped mainsail,
they managed to round the windward mark in first place and succeeded in
maintaining their lead until the finish. Second place was taken by Dave
Smithwhite and Neil Fulcher who were hot on the tail of Pinnell until
they capsized bearing away round the windward mark. Richard Sims and
Simon Wood took third place.

The second race on Saturday was run on a windward/leeward course and it
was again Pinnell/Powell who were first round the windward mark. This
time though things didn't go their way as they bore away and the kicking
strap broke. This meant that Smithwhite moved through to first place
which he maintained to the finish. Richard Lord/Simon Lake took Second
and Andy Williams/Andy Edmonds took third.

Sunday saw a change in conditions with the wind easing to a force 3 to
4 and moving to the north east. Race three again saw Pinnell take the
winners gun and Smithwhite take second. However Terry Scutcher and
Richard Tew found the slightly lighter conditions more to their liking
and took third place.

Race four proved to be very close with Pinnell leading from Smithwhite
for the majority of the race with Scutcher and Debbie Jarvis/ Dan
Johnson chasing hard. Despite his best efforts Smithwhite was passed
on the last run when Jarvis and Scutcher gybed early and caught
a gust of wind. Final results of race four were Pinnell first,
Jarvis second and Scutcher third.

The last race of the weekend saw Scutcher take the early lead from
Pinnell only to lose it at the gybe mark when the spinnaker pole
became entangled in the downhaul rope. Rob Napier and Jonathan
Rennie took third place with some clever down wind sailing and what
appeared to be a very large spinnaker.
