Svensk seger i 505 VM 1988 i Sydney

Ny VM-seger för Bergström/Wenrup

Förra årets svenska
världsmästare i 505, Krister
Bergström och Olle Wenrup, upprepade bedriften vid årets
VM i Australien i februari. 

Australien är 505-lejonens kula, och att
segra där får guldglansen att växa ytterligare. Favoriter var hemmasönerna Dean
Blatchford och Tom Woods, VM-segrare 1984, och det var mycket riktigt detta par som bjöd
på hårdaste motståndet.

Bara fyra seglingar kunde genomföras pga
en svår storm som härjade i Sydney i tre dagar mitt under regattan. Innan dess hade
Bergström serien 4,3,1 i konkurrens med 89 andra båtar.



Krister och Olle,
S7655, i ledning före Blatchford/Woods, KA7481.

Fram till tredje seglingen, som de
vann, så hade Krister svårt att tro på slutseger. Men med den spiken förstod han att
chansen fanns. Efter stormen fanns bara ytterligare en dag disponibel. Arrangörerna valde
att bara genomföra en segling, och man beslöt dessutom att ett av racen skulle få
räknas bort, trots att det alltså bara skulle bli fråga om fyra seglingar sammanlagt.

Den ändringen av föreskrifterna innebar
att ytterligare en australisk båt hade chansen att vinna, vid sidan om Blatchford/Woods
och Bergström/Wenrup - och kanske var just detta faktum anledningen till
seglingsnämndens beslut. Det sista, fjärde racet, skulle alltså bli avgörande, och
för svenskarna gällde det: a) att vinna om Blatchford/Woods blev 2:a, b) att bli 2:a om
B/W blev 4:a, och c) att guldet var förlorat om man blev 3:a.

Hårda bud alltså, och för säkerhets
skull avslutade Bergström/Wenrup med en seger - och på platsen efter kom
Blatchford/Woods... Därmed tog svenskarna VM-guldet med minsta möjliga marginal - 0.3
poäng. Krister's kommentar: 'Vi hade tur med vädret, det passade oss bra. I hårdare
vindar, över 9-10 meter, hade australierna blivit farliga, och i svag vind hade en del
européer hävdat sig bättre.

Hela 62 utländska båtar hade kommit
till VM-seglingarna i Sydney, något som imponerade på värdarna. För 31-årige Krister
Bergström var det 15:e året i 505 och för gasten Olle Wenrup det 17:e... Det är denna
enorma rutin som ligger bakom framgångarna, enligt Krister Bergström: &quot;Man har
lärt sig det här gamet vid det här laget. Får vi tre, fyra veckors segling innan en
tävling kan vi alltid slåss i toppen.&quot;

Fem veckor tillbringade man i Australien;
dagen efter prisutdelningen var det dags att direkt sätta sig på flyget hem till Sverige
- och arbetet. 505 är ju ingen OS-klass, och man lever lite i skuggan av de stora
bidragen. Nästa år går VM i England, och 1991 i Marstrand. Det var där allt började
för Krister Bergström 1974, och kanske avslutar han och Olle Wenrup en framgångsrik
karriär just där - med ett nytt guld..?



1988 Worlds - The Racing

Thunder Downunder

Proudly sponsored by Channel 7, Sydney

HEAT 1

1984 World Champion Dean
Blatchford and crew Tom Woods from the Toronto Club set the ocean waters off Manly alight
in the first heat of the Channel 7 505 World Championship winning the race by 2 minutes.
After following another Australian Stephen McConaghy and crew, his brother Andrew, around
the first windward mark, Blatchford surged to the front of the 90 boat fleet and was never
in danger of losing the lead. 

It was a real test with
an ocean swell in excess 3 metres and up to 20 knots of Southerly breeze. Even when the
wind shifted during the 3rd beat. Blatchford was up the task, reading the 25 degree shift
to the east on the reaching legs to ensure that he was on the favoured side of the course
for the final beat to the finishing line.

Stephen & Andrew McConaghy,
Middle Harbour Yacht Club -
more
photos

With no chance of
catching Blatchford, McConaghy held grimly onto 2nd place until at the bottom mark the
Danish Jorgen Holm-Nielsen was within 30 seconds of him. On the final beat to the finish,
McConaghy made the mistake of going too far inshore on the right hand side of the course,
letting Holm-Nielsen had reversed the margin, finishing 30 seconds ahead of McConaghy.

The defending World
Champion Krister Bergstrom from Sweden was a little slow out of the blocks, rounding the
top mark in 7th place. Sheer determination and some excellent boat handling saw the
defending champion back in the hunt in 4th place, a position he held to the finish and one
he could be well satisfied with in the demanding conditions. 

Fifth place went to
another Australian, Norman Rydge Jnr, with a similar sailing exhibition to Bergstrom,
rounding the first mark in 9th place before consolidating into 6th place at the second
windward mark. There was drama early in the race with a collision between 2 French boats,
putting a hole in one yacht, then shortly after the last mark rounding, another boat was
holed and had to be towed back to the safety of Sydney Harbour submerged.

HEAT 2

In a complete reversal of form, American
Jeff Miller turned the first heat result of 23rd completely around to score a start to
finish victory in the 2nd heat. Although beaten around the first windward mark by 3 other
yachts, it took the American only a few hundred metres, with some excellent spinnaker
setting, to leap to a 4 boat lead. As each rounding was completed, he went further ahead,
finishing the race over 2 minutes ahead of the 2nd placed yacht without any challenge to
his lead. 

The minor placings changed repeatedly
during the course of the race, with 2 English yachts steered by John McLaren and Martin
Spence swapping places with McConaghy on the first 2 reaches. It wasn't until the square
run downwind that the English pair were found wanting for speed, slipping to 11th and 5th
respectively at the finish, leaving McConaghy to finish in 2nd place.

Shock of the way came when favourite for
the series after his win in the preceding Pacific and Australian Championship Dean
Blatchford, was buried in a hectic gate start to round the windward mark in 22nd place the
first time. He manoeuvred through the congestion of the wing and leeward mark roundings to
fight his way back to 6th; the second time around the course gaining 2 more places before
the finishing line to secure a 4th place.

Defending World Champion Bergstrom also
found himself the victim of the demanding gate start, a real nightmare for competitors and
organisers alike as the 90 boat fleet vied for supremacy in this unique starting procedure
reputed to be the fairest of all. After looking at 27 other spinnakers on the first reach,
Bergstrom showing amazing determination and shet boat handling mastery, eventually
scratched his way up to 8th. In the final 2 windward works he picked up 2 places each
time, finally running down Blatchford to snatch 3rd place from the Australian by 5
seconds.

The day's conditions were a lot more
pleasant than the opening heat, with a good 15 knot South-easterly breeze on a relatively
flat sea. As the race progressed, the wind made an uncustomary swerve to the south,
catching some competitors on the wrong side.

HEAT 3

Current World Champion Bergstrom was back
to the form which won him the title last year in Helsinki. Rain squalls made observation
of the marks impossible from the previous mark, with visibility reduced to 200 metres at
times. It was up to the competitors, (albeit the leader) to find the marks by sailing the
compass designed course; the rest then followed.

Bergstrom led from start to finish with
Blatchford always in close company, but never looking a threat to overhaul the Swede.
Every move the Australian made was immediately countered by Bergstrom in what developed
into a match racing competition. The third placed boat was never closer than 1 ½ minutes
to the 2 leaders after the first rounding, giving them the luxuary of simply worrying
about each other. In the final beat of the shortened race, Bergstrom finished just 27
seconds ahead of Blatchford, but it may well been a mile, such was the current champion's
domination of the situation.

In 3rd place was Norman Rydge. The young
Australian also had a cushion ride in the race, never looking a threat to the leading 2,
but with a commanding lead over the 4th boat. At the finishing line it was Rydge by 1½
minutes to another Australian and former World Champion Gary Bruniges, unbreakable
dead-heat with American Bruce Edwards.

Organisers were forced to shorten the
course in the interest of safety of the small dinghies, not because of the conditions,
which did take its toll, but because the ocean racing fleet from another yacht club in
Sydney were rounding a mark in the vicinity of the wing mark, and their course took them
across the World Championship course. 'In the reduced visibility, we were not prepared to
risk the possibility of an ocean racing yacht colliding with one of the 505s' one of the
organisers stated after the race.

In the damage department, one German boat
broke its rudder going through Sydney Heads before the start, but was rescued through
quick thinking on the part of the organisers who were keeping a watchful eye on the fleet.
The yacht was taken in tow just metres from the dangerous rocks of outer North Head. In
another incident, 12 metre skipper Iain Murray was also in trouble with a broken rudder,
but with some skill managed to cross the finishing line before capsizing and requiring a
tow back into the safety of the harbour.

HEAT 4

The day's racing was cancelled because of the 30 knot
winds and 4 metre seas.

HEAT 5

Persistent high winds and a heavy sea and
swell condition off Sydney Heads again forced organisers to abandon racing for the second
consecutive day. Winds up to 30 knots and horrific seas up to 4 metres battered the course
area and the 90 fleet boat spent the day on the beach awaiting a decision. 

In a decision late in the day, the
International Jury ruled that neither the 4th or 5th Heats would be re-sailed, after both
were postponed because of weather conditions. So the World Championship was to be reduced
to 4 races if the final race could be sailed. The strong southerly which had blown for the
past few days was expected to moderate overnight and the the promise of a race to complete
the series looked bright. The Jury also changed the rules of the Regatta to allow one
discard (for a bad result) for each competitor.

HEAT 6

The defending World Champion, Krister
Bergstrom succesfully defended his 505 crown in the final heat of the Channel 7 505 World
Championships. In a 15 knot south easterly breeze and a confused sea, Bergstrom took the
lead from the start, leading around the first windward mark by well over a minute. 

On the second of the first reaching legs,
the Swede protected his position by dropping his spinnaker and reaching down the leg with
just his main and jib. The move was well contrived, as a wind shift of some 15 degrees, to
the south made the leg a little closer to the wind, ensuring that Bergstrom lost no ground
at all.

For Australian Blatchford, leading after
the first three races, the day was simply a case of following the flying Swede at arm's
lenght and waiting for him to make a mistake. This didn't happen and Blatchford had to be
satisfied with runner's up prize, not only for the race but for the Championship.

After the two previous days' racing
having been abandoned because of strong winds and heavy seas, the days' event was as
perfect a competition as could be expected in the left-over seaway, requiring good boat
handling from all competitors.

The race was delayed at the first start
when one competitor caused the pathfinder and the gate launch to collide, requiring the
race to be restarted. The pathfinder, Mark Soulsby from South Australia was holed in the
process. Quick repairs on the ocean course and a short delay saw the boat back in the
fleet, as pathfinder, for the restart. Although placed about 20th on the first rounding,
Soulsby requested redress from the International Jury, claiming that the boat began to
take water as the race proceeded, forcing him back to 26th place. Behind Bergstrom and
Blatchford, another 2½ minutes elapsed before Australian Peter Hewson crossed the line in
third spot.

Sydney yachtsmen Stephen McConaghy and
Norman Rydge had their own battle further back in the fleet. After a disastrous start for
the pair in which they rounded the first windward mark in 31st and 33rd place, they put on
a remarkable fight back, as if inspired by each other. In a do or die effort the pair
eventually clased their way back to the top ten with McConaghy taking 7th spot in the race
to secure 3rd place overall in the Championship, and Rydge having to settle for a hard won
9th place and 4th overall in the title.

It must have been disappointing for
American Bruce Edwards, who placed 5th in the race but could not make up the necessary
points also finishing 5th in the series.



505 Worlds

8-17th
February 1988, 

Sydney/Australia

Middle Harbour Yacht Club
was the organizer behind
this event. MHYC, which is close to the Spit Bridge at Mosman, and faces the comfortable
villas of Clontarf climbing up the wooded hills at Balgowlah Heights, is a large and keen
Yacht Club with substantial experiance of managing major events including the J24 World
Championships, the JOG International event and many local championships. The Club is home
to several state of the art performance classes. Their 505 fleet is one of the largest in
Australia. Prior to the Worlds, Jan29 - Feb7, the Australian & South Pacific
Championships were organised as one regatta run on two circles within Sydney Harbour. The
combination of wind and current heavily favoured local knowledge. The winners of both
series were Dean Blatchford & Tom Woods, KA-7481.

Final result after 4 races
(the first 15 teams 
incl. Swedish
team). 90 boats from 11 nations competed.



Sv.505 Förbundet

Sidan senast
uppdaterad 
Ebbe Rosén
Du är den  besökaren
sedan 1998-04-04

---------------------------------------

SYDNEY ONE MORE TIME

Gerade aus Australien zurück, gäbe es viel zu berichten, nicht übers
Segeln.

Die Deutschen fielen durch zwei Dinge auf :

1. durch ihre wohlbekannte "German speed" (bester Deutscher Christoph
   und Timmi auf Platz 52) ,
2. daß ein Herr Frommholz, der im Regattabüro sein aber Startgeld
   zurückverlangt hatte (und dann verschwand) im Regattabüro einen so
   nachhaltigen Eindruck hin— terlassen hatte, daß diese be im West
   German ängst— lich die Hände hoben und fragten, 0b man Herr Fromm— ho
   Iz sei.

Zum Segeln selber. Untypisch flir die Jahreszeit wehte statt eines
Nordostwindes mit Sonnenschein die ganze Woche ein Südostwind mit
Regenschauern, z. so stark, daß nur 4 der vorgesehenen 6 Wettfahrten
stattfanden. Bei diesem 'Kiel er Sommerwetterl fühlten wir uns fast wie
zu Hauseo Draugen auf der Regattabahn vor den North Heads hatte sich
eine hohe Dünung mit Kreuzseen aufgebaut. (Got you trouble with the
wives? Bernd im Club gefragte Gemeint waren 'waves"). Da das Ietzte
Rennen der vorhergehenden Pazific Meisterschaften statt draußen/ im
Sydney Harbour ausgetragen wurden, und auch das Practice Race nach innen
verlegt worden war, hatte keiner sich richtig an dieses "Kopf
steinpflaster" gewöhnen können. Alle Deutschen sind auch mindestens
einmal aufgrund Protestes, Bruchs oder sonstiger Aufgabe ausgeschiedene.

An der Spitze kristallisierte sich bald der alte Zweikampf Bergström
( T,dM 87) gegen Blatchford (WM Grömitz) heraus. Da aufgrund einer
Regeländerung auch bei vier Wettfahrten eine gestrichen werden konnte,
gewann Bergström mit Oe3 Punkten vor Blatchford.

Während Bergström sei nen alter Parker fuhr, sah man um sich herum fast
nur nagelneue Kyrwoods (fast alle Schweizer hat ten drüben neue Schiffe
bekommen)e Ach so, daß Frommholz die Europavertretung für Kyrwood habe,
dem ist nicht so. Aufgrund einer nicht sauberen Geschichte mit
Schwertern (Betroffene kennen die Geschichte), so 11 auch Herr Kyrwood
nicht so gut auf Frommholz zu sprechen sein.

Da unsere Youngsters (Timmi, Christopf, Carsten) schon seit Weihnachten
in Australien waren, wollten die auch noch einen um 16.30 Uhr bei 5 - 6 Windstärken aus Süd, also immer noch Föhn, durchgeführt. Am Abend bedankte sich dann die Wettfahrtleitung für die tollen Einlagen der Segler und die vielen Varianten der Kenterungen. Es war ein Buffet aufgebaut und die Flotte Zug zeigte eine Modenschau für Segler.

Letzter Tag, Sonntag um 9.00 Start bei 3 - 4 Windstärken aus Nord mit leichten Winddrehungen und der 6. Lauf begann um 12.00 bei 3 Windstärken aus West. Ich war völlig erledigt, drei Tage lang es den Seglern recht zu machen strengt doch sehr an. Aber sie hatten ihre 6 Wettfahrten.

Um 15.30 war dann eine Super-Siegerehrung. Gott sei Dank brauchte ich da nur zuzuschauen. Jeder Teilnehmer bekan noch einen grünen Rucksack, jede Dame eine rote Rose fürs tapfere Durchhalten. Außerdem noch diverse Sachpreise zum Aussuchen und zur Verlosung kam noch eine Regattauhr, die nach München ging.

Generell kann man nur sagen, eine wirklich gelungene Schweizer Meisterschaft, die Organisation war absolute Spitze.

Es lohnt sich, nächstes Jahr mit mehr Booten aus Deutschland mitzumachen.
Petrus
i. V.
Geschw. Seifert

