1995 505 Canadian Championship

The Canadian Championships were held in Vancouver, the 10th to the 12th of
June. The event was hosted by Canadian 505 Fleet 1 and the Kitsilano Yacht
Club. Teams from Vancouver, Central BC, the Canadian prairies, Ontario, the US
Midwest, Seattle, the San Francisco area, Los Angeles, and the US Mid Atlantic
region participated. The North Americans were held from June 15th to the 18th,
at the same site.

Races were held on English Bay, a short sail from KYC. Some interesting local
tides with strength and possibly (I never figured it out) direction changes
across the course made for challenging racing. The view from KYC or from the
water is spectacular, with rain forest on the shoreline, and snow capped
mountains higher up. Vancouver lived up to its reputation, delivering lots of
rain during the event. There were several beautiful sunny warm days as well.

Conditions were light to medium and shifty for the seven race series. In order
to make the Canadians different from the North Americans which followed,
shorter trapezoid courses were used.

These trapezoid courses are apparently the new Olympic course layout. In my
opinion these courses may be appropriate for boats which are very equal in
speed, and which desire to maximize the close contact situations (maybe this
looks good on TV!) It does not make much sense for any sort of high performance
dinghy, as the two reaches are tighter than the current extra tight (60 gybe
angle) 505 course, and you cannot normally fly the chute on both. These legs
are short enough that they are a parade, with the leaders getting further
ahead. As for the runs, if I wanted to sail slow, not use the trapeze, and just
point the boat at the next mark, I'd buy a Snipe or a J24. I am glad we tried
to them for the experience though.

Rain and an absence of wind caused Saturday's races to be postponed. Three
races were run on Sunday, and four on Monday. Did I mention the rain?

Mike Punnett/Scott Ikle of Sun Valley and upstate New York (respectively) sailed
very consistently in the early races, putting themselves far enough ahead on
points, such that Seattle's Anne and Kris Henderson's late charge fell short.
Third went to Scott Smith/Derek Campbell also from Seattle. Ali Meller/John Fry
of the Mid Atlantic region and New York were 4th, with Howard Hamlin/Mike
Martin of Long Beach 5th.

While Punnet/Ikle raced 8013, their '87 Waterat, the Henderson's sailed their
Henderson 505, one of two built by Kris, and had sails made by Anne.

There may be more interest in Henderson 505s and Henderson sails after this
event!

The teams in 3rd and 4th were racing 15 plus year old Lindsays, 7150 and 6987,
respectively. What other high performance dinghies have longevity like this!

Terry Neff and Bobby Noyes arrived at the regatta with their brand new Waterat
on the roof, launching it for the first time at the event. After chartering
boats for key events over the last few years (Terry has managed to race in at
least the last three North Americans), they finally bought a boat. As Terry put
it, this boat is going to stay competitive for at least the next twenty years;
they will never have to buy another 505.

After two lay days for teams to visit Vancouver - one of the nicer places on
the globe, or practice - Wednesday had 20 plus knots, the Canadians fleet with
a few additions reconvened for the North American Championship.

Race Committee work was excellent, and Fleet 1 were excellent hosts. The social
events were very successful.


Ali Meller / ameller@mcimail.com
