https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/297359/505-KZN-Provincials-at-Durban

505 KZN Provincials at Point Yacht Club, Durban
by Sophie Thompson 23 Jun 15:58 BST
13–15 June 2026

A formidable team were crowned in the 505 KZN Provincials, James Largier
and Richard Hutton-Squire from Cape Town were in a class of their own,
dominating the three-day regatta hosted by Point Yacht Club.

Largier and Hutton-Squire have been sailing 505s together since 2012,
racking up 5 separate National titles, and now in their inaugural KZN
regatta - they can add KZN Provincial champion to the list too.

Chatting after prize-giving, Hutton-quire shared, 'We last sailed
offshore Durban in the 505 Nationals about 6 years ago on an Easter
Weekend. We have fond memories of that long weekend and were lucky
enough to finish first.'

'The conditions offshore Durban were amazing this weekend. Day two was
a very lumpy North Easter, which we love. Breeze was a bit up and down
between 12 and 17 knots. We had some great surfing conditions. When the
sun is out and the breeze is up these conditions in Durban make for
phenomenal 505 sailing conditions, making the drive from Cape Town worth
it.'

The Cape sailors notched up a fourth in the first race, and three firsts
in the remaining races. They were leading the fifth race by a country
mile, but on lap two the wind evaporated forcing an abandonment. The top
four were all equal on five points each after the first day of racing.

'We had a blast in race four! Those were the best conditions we have
sailed in in a long time, and we really got the boat going quickly.'

The next big 505 event is the World Championships in Hayling Island (UK)
in three weeks' time. 'Unfortunately, we won't be making an appearance
which we are super disappointed about. We came 15th in our last run at
the 505 World Champs.'


James Largier and Richard Hutton-Squire chase down the front runners in
race 1 - 505 KZN Provincials at Point YC, Durban - photo © Sophie
Thompson James Largier and Richard Hutton-Squire chase down the front
runners in race 1 - 505 KZN Provincials at Point YC, Durban - photo
© Sophie Thompson Second place, brothers Peter and Thomas Funke relished
the experience of finishing on the podium in every race. They were the
defending champs, claiming the title in 2024 with a fleet of only seven
boats. This year the fleet nearly doubled in size, with thirteen highly
competitive boats from around South Africa, on the water.

'Durban dished out the goods producing solid 15 to 20 knots and
fantastic waves, and the reaches and runs were superb. Surfing down the
swells on day two was awesome!' event organiser and top competitor,
Thomas Funke raved.

The Funke brothers will soon be packing up their sailing bags as they
head off to compete in the World Champs. 'After this weekend, we are
feeling really good. We know what we need to do and what wasn't great.
A perfect test before taking on the world's best.'

This will be their eleventh 505 World Champs, last competing in Varberg,
Sweden two years ago where they finished 31st out of 95 competitors.

Fellow north coaster, Rudy McNeill ventured into 505 territory. An ILCA
regular, McNeill diversified, pairing up for the first time with Luke
Wagner. McNeill was competing in his first proper 505 regatta, 'Well,
technically it is the second if you count a Nationals I sailed with my
dad when I was about 10 years old. All I remember from that was loads of
capsizing.'

McNeill and Wagner finished third overall, kicking off their regatta
with a win in the first race.

