Santa Cruz Summer Open
Mike Holt
2019-06-11

Saturday morning, I get a text from the World Champion: Just looked at
the forecast. Should we bring boats or bikes?

Now to be fair to Mike, the forecast was to be very warm, at least by
Santa Cruz standards, however, King City and the Salinas Valley was
forecast to be over 100 and the ocean as we all know is a few degrees
cooler than that. So I feel fairly confident that we will have some
wind…. Don Radcliffe and his team set out to lay the course and have us
nicely offshore starting close to Mile Bouy. While the sail out is very
light, by 1pm and race start time the wind is into double figures and
battle can commence on a well set course and start line.

Saturday had 3 good races in a breeze that built to around 15 knots by
the end of the, fantastic tight racing, basically in 2 groups, the
World’s top 3 boats having a very tight tussle and then the rest of the
fleet enjoying close racing behind them. It was good to see a new boat
joining the fray, with Dallas and Joe coming up from SoCal in the new to
them 9042. Following racing Don very kindly supplied Pizza and Beer to
the fleet and those that didn’t go home came to my place for a BBQ.

Sunday and the doom mongerers were grousing about the weather again…
Fret not, it is Santa Cruz, it will be perfect. And it was. By 12:30 you
could trapeze out of the harbor to the race track and at 1pm start time
we had a perfect 12-16 knots of wind on the race course. We mixed it up
on Sunday. Those that had finished on the podium at a recent Worlds
started on the start gun, but everyone else started on the 1 minute. As
Ryan commented, “the dogs were let loose”. This gave for some great
racing and boat on boat tactics, with the merge point being the first
leeward mark! I think everyone had their moment of glory, with Paul and
Makenzie leading a race, as well as Rob/Aaron and Ryan and Will at some
point. An experiment well worth repeating.

But when the dust had settled, the results were the same as January,
although a little closer, we could read Mike and Adam’s sail number! The
wind did not disappoint, in fact the weather was about as perfect as it
could be, very Goldilocks, not too little, not too much! Really just
a shame that the rest of you didn’t make it down (or up) to Santa Cruz.

Text back to Mike: Boat.
