505s Strongest Class at 1996 Hampton Annual

Team New Zealand Defeated!

The 505s were the largest class - apart from juniors - at the Hampton Annual,
exceeding even the Hampton One Designs at their home club. 14 5o5s were on the
start line, with several new faces in the fleet.

Clark Dennison & Scott Collins arrived from central Virginia with Butler 505
3164, after a lot of rebuilding work. It was great to see this boat on the
water after discussing it on e-mail, and viewing photos on Clark's web page.
The boat has come a long way from the condition it was in when Clark acquired
it. 3164 is probably 30 years old, and back on the race course! Congratulations
Clark!

Other newcomers were Gary Van Tassel 2, with Dad Gary Van Tassel 1 on the wire
(on the wire is figuratively speaking, it was too light to trapeze all
weekend!). The Van Tassel's acquired Pete Wallio's Parker just a few days ago.
Rob Robinson and his brother arrived for his first 505 regatta in the Parker he
bought from Dave Blessing earlier this year. Doug Amthor was unable to race due
to another commitment (GOLF!!!!??), so Henry Amthor recruited Steven Hunt, head
instructor at the Hampton Yacht Club junior program and intercollegtiate
rockstar from Charleston, for Steven's first 505 regatta. The turnout was
significantly larger than last year and was due to the growth in 505 Fleet 19,
and more recently the Hampton 505 fleet - fleet 8 - too.

The strong 505 showing did not go unnoticed, with several sailors from other
classes expressing an interest in the 505 now that a revival is clearly under
way. We collected addresses and phone numbers from several people enthusiastic
about getting out in a 505.

Conditions were very hot, with light winds. Despite the heat, the sea breeze
did not fill in, and racing was conducted in a weak south-westerly. The Race
Committee did an outstanding job in getting three races in over the weekend,
without keeping us out in the sun waiting too long for races to start - or
racing to be abandoned for the day. As often happens at Hampton, the tide
became a significant factor when the wind went light, though the multiple lap
triangle courses prevented the fleet from splitting down the runs. Racing was
close, with positions frequently changing at mark roundings - and on the finish
line - and some race-long battles between teams, never separated by more than a
few boatlengths.

Bob and Betsy O'Brien demonstrated that their speed at the Hampton trapeze
regatta in May was no fluke, as they were the fastest boat on the course at
times. They fought for the lead for much of Race 2, and would have been third,
but for missing out on the strongest current on the left of the short beat to
the finish, which cost them two places. Paul Head/Chris Ryan - team New Zealand
- sported a new Quantum main, and continue to get faster and better every time
they race. Still on the New Zealand theme, this week their boat was named Lady
Sheep Killer! They led race 2 at every mark, only losing a wiley Henry
Amthor/Steven Hunt on the finish line. Jim Englert/Thad Melton have figured out
how to set up 7346 after converting it from forward-tack-bag to launcher mode;
they were scary fast at times. By the way, 7346 may have been sold at the
regatta, and Jim may have already ordered a new Waterat... this new boat may be
the first British Racing Green Waterat ever made! The Dussia father and son
team were back out, and in the hunt, as were Jennifer Baltz and Austin Bishop

Once again, Gary Bodie was coaxed out of retirement, this time to drive 7092
with Ken Elliott crewing. They won the start and led race 1 for the first two
legs. They were a factor in all three races, though a tactical error in the
second race on the second triangle first reach (Gary - check the sailing
instructions - it was a reach, not a run!) pulled them out of the top overall.

Starts were crowded and agressive, with no one giving an inch, and the tide
pushing some over early.

Heavyweights - fat boys? - Ali Meller/Allan Johnson won the first race, and
broke a tie with Amthor/Hunt by winning the third - and last - race, to win the
regatta. Amthor/Hunt's 3,1,4 gave them 2nd overall.

Hampton is always such a fun place to race.... The crabs and beer were a big
hit on Saturday afternoon; the regatta and the crabs and beer are free to CBYRA
members! Thanks to the Amthor's for putting up many of the out-of-town
competitors.... Great parties, evening "creek cruises", beer and sodas on the
water... Allan - I can't stop dancing - Johnson was a big hit with the band,
Soul Train at one of the parties we crashed, and is rumoured to be going on
tour with them shortly.
