Hurricane Bertha Fails to Stop 35th International 505 East Coast Championship

28 505s, Largest 505 ECC fleet since early '70s!

Hurricane Bertha caused Saturday's - July 13 - racing to be cancelled, but the
35th Annual 505 East Coast Championship was not materially affected, as the
outstanding New Bedford Yacht Club race committee got in three races on Friday
and three more on Sunday. 28 5o5s - the largest East Coast Championship fleet
in years - participated. Teams were primarily from the US East Coast, but
included competitors from California, Chicago, Minneapolis, Ottawa and
Kingston.

Conditions were excellent with most racing in about 15 knots of wind and some
races somewhat lighter at times, and one race in slightly more. The 505s
revelled in those conditions, planing upwind and on the reaches easily, while
surfing down waves for extended periods on the run.

International 505 Class American Section Vice President, Alexander (Ali) Meller
and ace crew Allan Johnson dominated the event with three firsts and three
seconds. The competition for second overall was intense, with three teams going
into the last race essentially tied. Jeff Boyd/Martin tenHove passed Macy
Nelson/John Fry on the finish line to take 2nd, while losing the one place
pushed Nelson/Fry from 2nd to 4th overall, behind Zack Leonard/Peter Alarie who
won two races on the Sunday to move into 3rd overall.

Meller/Johnson were fast upwind and down, had smooth boat handling, were rarely
caught on the wrong side of a shift and were able to work there way through
into second when they did not lead a race early on.

The resurgence in the 505 class was clear to see, with two brand new boats
being raced for the first time, one each from Waterat and Rondar, and a number
of sailors new to the class competing in recently acquired used boats (old 505s
never die.....).

After borrowing and chartering 505s for two events, Chris Museler bought
Pressure Drop, a twenty year old Lindsay 505, just days before the event, so
that he could compete. Other newcomers included Brandon Charif, Tim Collins,
Bob Edenbach, Mike Collins, Bill Smith, Bill Healey...... It was also great to
see so many class veterans like Barry Kuehl, Tom Kivney, Dave Peck, Bill
Pevear, Jan Aase, Chris and Peter Follansbee, Neal Fowler, Dave Dyson, Todd
Johnson, Nick Grey, Gerard Kivney at the event.

The New Bedford Yacht Club Race Committee, led by David Biddle and Bruce
Cartwright, ran 6 near-perfect races for the fleet, with no wait between races,
6 perfect gate starts in 6 attempts, square beats and tight reaches. Thanks
also to Phyllis Biddle, Steve Mello and the other members of this committee,
many of whom have been running races at NBYC for over 40 years. Courses were
either old Olympic or 505 Worlds format - 505 Worlds format is an extra two
reaches and a beat on the end of the old Olympic course.

The depth in the fleet was extraordinary, and included a number of
intercollegiate all Americans, a recent college sailor of the year, other
recent college stars, sailors who just finished racing at the Olympic trials, a
past Olympian, a past America's Cup 12 meter racer, past National and North
American Champions in the 505 and other dinghy classes, as well as college
stars from over twenty years ago, to say nothing of a number of past 505 East
Coast Champions. As a somewhat rueful tail-ender explained, the problem with
being almost last in a race, is that the teams you are racing against are still
very good, and they are racing hard to beat you, with perfect leebow tacks and
good speed. Despite finishing 2nd in the first race, past 505 East Coast
Champions Neal Fowler/Dave Dyson were unable to fight there way through the
middle of the fleet on several occasions. As Dave Dyson noted, you could not
get to the preferred side of the course, because everyone - even at the back -
knew which way they wanted to go, and were not going to give you a lane to get
there, another indication of the depth in the fleet. Hampered by inexperience
with a new boat, Tyler Moore, who was 5th at the Mounts Bay World Championship,
5th in the recent 470 Olympic trials, and is a recent college sailor of the
year, could only manage 10th place in this fleet.

Other standouts in the fleet included Zack Leonard/Peter Alarie, whose 1,4,1 in
the last three races pulled them into 3rd overall. In the two races they won,
they led at every mark. Bryan Largay/Matt Sanders were 3,2,6 for the last three
races, in their 17 year old Hamlin, pulling them into 5th overall. Monty
Schumpert recruited Jonathan Phillips to drive 8015, and this pick up team
finished a close 8th, posting finishes of 6,7,7 on the second day; Phillips and
Schumpert were the only team that that managed to pass the regatta winners on a
reach; they were shouting for the camera boat as they blasted over
Meller/Johnson on the second reach of the last race. In contrast to many of the
newcomers, ace crew Monty Schumpert is in his fifties. Team New Zealand, Paul
Heads/Chris Ryan finally got to sail a 505 in some breeze, after a series of
light air regattas. After figuring out gate starts and upwind tuning, there
scores improved, with two 15th place finishes. Bill Healey Jr. recently
acquired 7358, and finished 14th with veteran crew Dave Peck. Bill Healey Sr.
won the 505 East Coast Championships three times.
