Twenty 505s at 1996 Midwinter Championships

1996 was the second year that the 505 Midwinters were held in St. Petersburg,
with the FDs and OD14s. This year's event was even better than last year's!

The 505 Midwinters were held January 5-7th, at the St. Petersburg Yacht Club,
St. Petersburg Florida, in conjunction with the One Design 14 and Flying
Dutchman Midwinter Championships. As last year, Nancy Graham and the SPYC put
on an outstanding event for the three high performance dinghy classes. The
William R. Hough company was the major sponsor this year. Two evening's worth
of dinner and entertainment, and beverages on the water are provided with the
$90 entry fee, as is lunch on the Sunday; providing lunch with prize
presentation is a stroke of genius! SPYC loves the 505s and is eager to work
with us to make the event even better in future.

Twenty 505s, with teams from California, Texas, the Midwest, New England, Mid
Atlantic and Florida participated, up from 12 last year. The 505 fleet included
Olympic contenders in the 470 and Europe Dinghy classes, as well as the usual
intercollegiate all-Americans, intercollegiate sailors of the year '94 and '95,
past 505 North American and World champions, National Champions in other
classes, and so on. The 505s will probably be the largest fleet at St. Pete's
next year, as several teams could not make it this year but promised to make it
down next year. Eager for warmth, sunshine, and sailing, several teams arrived
days early to practice.

Several boats were borrowed or chartered for this event, allowing several
people to get some great 505 experience. Dave Blessing lent 7569, Les Crane
lent 7571 (and managed to sell it to the growing Texas fleet), George Iverson
lent his brand new Lindsay, and long time 505 supporter John McNeil lent his
immaculate, mint, always stored indoors, vintage Parker, 5482. Did you know
that 5482 has a honeycomb cored floor and is VERY stiff despite being built in
1975!

There were eight FDs, and 23 OD 14s, though ten of those were from Sweden
(including Krister Bergstrom's brother Rasmus!) as the OD 14 "international"
Championship (only IYRU International classes can have an official World
Championship) was a week later in Key West.

Seven races, rather than the twelve scheduled, were held due to light air
Friday and Saturday afternoons and no racing on Sunday due to thunderstorms. In
retrospect, we should have rigged and gone out sailing on Sunday with Ethan and
Steve, as planing around in 30 plus knots would have been much more fun than
derigging in the rain and driving home into the worst East Coast blizzard in 70
years.

In the first race, those who started at the pin were clobbered. Tyler
Moore/Ryan Cox - who started near the boat - led at every mark, with Ethan
Bixby/Steve Lippincott close behind. Ali Meller/Allan Johnson passed
Bixby/Lippincott on the 2nd (tight) reach. Bixby/Lippincott worked the right
side of the last beat to the finish, were forced out right by Meller/Johnson
several times, but were able to come back on the layline and shoot the boat end
to take 2nd.

Nick Trotman/Mike Mills decided the pin was not the place to be for the second
race, and won the boat end and the race. Bixby/Lippincott were 2nd again.
Trotman/Mills continued their winning ways in the 3rd race, which became
painfully light for most of the race. The time limit after the first boat
finished was only 15 minutes, and only seven teams were able to finish inside
this time limit. Local Optimist ace Chris Tuggle and George Saunders raced a
great race in vintage Parker 5482, passing many boats on the second reach, to
get in touch with the leaders, but just missed the time limit for the race.
Chris Museler and Mike Buczkowski sailed a great race to take 2nd (in a
borrowed boat). Moore/Cox were 3rd, Zani/Alarie 4th, Henry Amthor/Doug Amthor
5th and Bixby/Lippincott 6th. Racing was adjourned for the day, and the fleet
sailed in for some well deserved food, beer and fun.

Saturday morning started off much like Friday, with a breeze that died off.
Trotman/Mills won again (their 3rd win in a row!), with Meller/Johnson 2nd,
Europe Dinghy Olympic campaigner, Carisa Harris (with Dave Shelton crewing)
3rd, and Bixby/Lippincott 4th. In the 5th race, Moore/Cox won, with
Meller/Johnson 2nd again, Trotman/Mills had a solid 3rd, Macy Nelson/Tuttle
4th, and Mike Zani and Peter Alarie (sailing Michael (Walter) Breault's boat)
5th. Race 6 was another painful light air race, with a big shift to the right
on the middle beat, that put Henry and Doug Amthor in front for good. I would
claim this was a fluke, except that some of the best light air 505 sailors went
deep right looking for just that shift. Trotman/Mills were 2nd, Moore/Cox 3rd,
Nelson/Tuttle 4th, Zani/Alarie 5th, Bixby/Lippincott 6th, Harris/Shelton 7th,
de la Rie/Richard were 8th, and Graham Alexander/Brett Davis 9th. After waiting
for the wind to shift around and rebuild, the fleet got off a 7th race which
became another light air drifting match. Moore/Cox pulled off a horizon job on
the fleet (well, they were not that far ahead in distance, but in time.....!).
Nelson/Tuttle sailed smart to take 2nd, with Zani/Alarie, Meller/Johnson,
Trotman/Mills finishing in that order close behind Nelson/Tuttle. The fleet
sailed in for more free food, dinner and fun!

After listening to the Sunday morning sailing radio show, hosted by St.
Petersburg Sailing Center's Dave Ellis, with guests Marshall Saffer of the OD
14s, a Tornado Olympic hopeful, and the 505 class's Ali Meller, discussing high
performance sailing, the fleet rigged up in a strong breeze looking forward to
some exciting rides! Unfortunately a series of storms could be seen on the
radar, and after several postponments racing was abandoned for the day, leaving
the results the way they stood after Saturday afternoon.

This left Trotman/Mills in first, winning the tie breaker over Moore/Cox in
second, a clear victory for the recent intercollegiate racing graduates over
the Old Guard except that Nick Trotman has being sailing 505s for five years,
and Tyler has been at it for at least two! The Old Guard promises to return!
Meller/Johnson were 3rd, just one point ahead of Zani/Alarie and three ahead of
Bixby/Lippincott.

Unfortunately we were not organized enough to award Classic Division prizes,
but Chris Tuggle - first time in a 505 - and George Saunders sailed 5482 to
victory in Classic Division after a very close battle with the Cole brothers in
4596. The Classic Division boats beat a Lindsay and a recent Parker overall,
and had some great races!

A rush to packup ensued, as the Texas contingent had to build supports to get
their two new boats (they bought Les Crane's Parker and Mike Zavelle's Lindsay)
home, and Barney Harris/Rene de la Rie; and Ali Meller/Monty Schumpert had to
put together Barney's double (soon to be triple) trailer, and Ali's double
trailer with boat on the roof. Kudos to Barney for delivering three boats to
the regatta, and to George and Ali for bringing 3 boats from the Mid Atlantic
region, and then getting another from the East Coast of Florida. George and Ali
single handedly delivered 20% of the fleet! A picture of the Jeep Cherokee with
a boat on the roof and two behind could make a great advertisement for
Chrysler! Departures were perfectly timed to hit the great East Coast Blizzard
of '96, and lots of adventures were had by those driving home (while those
flying enjoyed the St. Petersburg area and the airport bars for a couple of
extra days).

Not having to pack up their boat allowed Bixby/Lippincott to go out for a blast
with Ethan's son Dylan along for the ride. Dylan returned a short while later
talking about a wild fast ride. Steve Lippincott was quoted as saying, "i have
never gone so fast in a sailboat!"

All in all, a great event, with everyone returning home enthusiastic. Several
interesting ideas were discussed between races. One being setting up a 505
Southern Circuit with several events about two weeks apart. Sailfest, the
current Midwinters, and maybe another event a week or two later were mentioned.
Please think about this and provide your thoughts to Ali. Another idea is to
build multi-boat trailers. The 8 boat One Design 14 trailer, and Barney and
Ali's double trailers showed their worth. Imagine fleets having 6 or 8 boat
trailers to get more boats longer distances! Apart from increasing the turnout
next year, we should look around for more boats that can be borrowed or
chartered. With a little work, we could have some European 505 sailors fly out
for some events - several have expressed an interest - as well as bringing in
some more prospects.

Nancy Graham and the SPYC do an incredible job for all three classes. The 505s
are very popular with the organizers, and to quote Nancy's husband at one of
the dinners, "we love you nancy!"

Next Year, 25 plus 505s!


