Grafham Water SC - Winter Invitation Weekend 20/21 November 1999

Sam Neal reports:

What were you doing on November 20th and 21st? If you were a keen 505
yachter you would have been enjoying the excellent close racing at GWSC
and going home with a nice prize from Ronstan. The format for the
weekend was three short races back to back, five to count, a very short
time between races, resulting in no cold muscles and maximum bar and
curry consumption time.

The wind strength on Saturday morning was 18-20 knots dropping slightly
to 15-18 in the afternoon. Just a few gusts to make it interesting and
no sails wiped out this week so the insurers can relax. Dave Peacock and
Chris Hewkin had an impressive start winning races 1 and 2 with his new
super flicky rig. Second and third in the first race were Martin Goult
with Gordon Russell and Jack Heyhurst with Adrian Coates, these teams
reversing their positions in race two.

Race three saw fatigue setting in and both Martin Goult and David
Peacock sailed over their spinnakers at the drop. Martin extracted his
but Dave was seen heading for the beach before retiring. Race three also
saw two other competitors the top three with Darren Grover with Simon
Lake taking second and Jim Berry and John Peats in third.

Sunday’s racing was altogether more civilised, a wind strength of 10-12
knots – trapezing conditions but no adrenaline moments. Two experimental
large kites were being tested by Ian Pinnell with Christian Diebitsch
and Darren Grover with Simon Lake but without devastating effect it
seems; both users commented that they needed to learn how to use them
and that planing may occur a little earlier. Races 4 and 5 were won by
Ian Pinnell, with Dave Peacock second and Martin Goult third in race 4,
and Jack Heyhurst second and Richard Lord third in race 5.

At the start of the last race any of three boats could have won the
weekend: Martin Goult, Jack Heyhurst or Dave Peacock. The result of the
race was Heyhurst, Goult, Lord, Peacock, with Heyhurst pulling off
a neat win by taking three places right on the line at the running
finish.

In the event Jack Heyhurst's win lifted him to second overall, Martin
Goult’s second retained him the winning slot, and Dave Peacock’s fourth
held him down to third overall.

Our thanks go to Ronstan for donating prizes that allowed all
competitors a position in the chocolates.

Don’t miss the Inlands at Grafham Water next spring. - Sam Neal, 505
Fleet Captain GWSC.


