Abersoch Open
South Caernarvonshire YC, Abersoch - 6/8 August 1999
Report: Clive Robinson

The Int 505s were made very welcome by the South Caernarfon Yacht Club. The
club officers turned out in force to run the meeting with joint senior OODs,
Pat Grimson and Aubrey Allso, ably aided on the cannons by the Commodore, Peter
Turnbull.

The original schedule was for two races a day over the three days. However, our
unusual weather over this summer put paid to this plan. No wind whatsoever on
the Friday. Not to matter, the club had coincidentally arranged an evening
disco run by a famous Radio 1 disc jockey (name unknown). The beer was good and
the scenery excellent.

Saturday, Forecast of Force 3/4, reality of 1/2, enabled three races back to
back to back to be sailed. Most of the excitement took place in the first race
with Charlie Walters/Christian Diebitsch, 505 8568, battling to be first to
gate start with David Peacock/Chris Hewkin, in 505 8495. In the starting melee
Charlie/Christian interfered with the Gate boat and circled round successfully
getting in the way of all the early starters. Surprise, surprise the the Joint
OODs disqualified the Charlie/Christian team. In the meantime Clive
Robinson/Gary Cawthorn, 505 8676, were having a hard fought battle for the lead
with Dave/Chris. In an effort to pass Clive/Gary on the last broad reaching
leg, Dave tried the revolutionary off wind light weather tactic of close
reaching when the rest of the fleet were sailing deep. Unfortunately, the
tactic did not come off and Dave/Chris lost three places on this leg. The
remaining two races were sailed in an ever decreasing wind. Clive/Gary showing
a fair turn of speed by winning all three races.

Sunday morning greeted the fleet with a complete change, Force 6, gusting Force
7. Sailing was out of the question with the club wind gauge showing 40 knots at
times. The lack of sailing gave plenty of time to carry out some preliminary
planning for the European Championships at Abersoch in August next Year. This
will be the Millenium dinghy event to sail in, following on from the fleet of
160 505s participating in the Worlds this year.


