Queen Mary SC - Training, 5 June 1999.
Queen Mary SC - One Day Open Meeting, 6 June 1999.
Training Day: Disappointingly, only five boats availed themselves of this golden opportunity to get first-hand tuition from Ian Pinnell. Nonetheless, a good day was had, in difficult up-and-down winds, proving how important it is these days to be able to 'change gear' easily to be competitive. Thank you, Ian.

Jean-Baptiste Dupont reports on the one-day open meeting:

11 boats turned up to race the annual Queen Mary 5o5 open regatta on Sunday the 6th of June.

A low was sitting above the area resulting in a very changing conditions - Wind was very unsteady, most influenced by medium or small black clouds which were affecting wind strength and direction in the morning particularily the day finishing up with a thermal sort of breeze building up to the end of the afternoon this has been a real challenge all along the day.

Race 1 and 2:
The course was laid at the far end of the reservoir not to interfere with the club regatta. A triangle followed by a sausage down south and a gate to get through on the way back to the windward buoy making a reasonably long beat to sail. Three laps per race.

Race 1:
Rob Napier and Steve Nicholson made a brilliant start at the pin end. The rest of the fleet starting at the boat were hurt by a lull and within a minute a gap had formed with the two leaders. Difficult to know where to go... a big black cloud on the left side promises to bring strong wind but the right side is better with a major lift. The first reach is tight, damned tight and a puff forced a few competitors to douse the kite to make the buoy, as a result the second reach is a run bringin two options whether to follow the shore on starboard or to go in the middle on port, this is the best option as long as you make it really in the middle; the direct route is obviously the worst. After the first lap, the fleet had split with the two leaders and close Richard Sims then a group of five boats and the other competitors spread on the course having had several misfortunes (capsizes, spinnaker messed up,..) ; The following laps were raced in wind which was consistently weakening making it sometimes a pain to round the windward mark... Steve Nicholson won the race and Rob finished second.

Race 2: The wind shifted on the left forcing the committee to change the starting line. Rob made a wonderful start at the pin end and then the left side was favoured due to a large cloud shifting the wind. The right side was a loser and the few boats who were tempted to get the stronger wind there were just fooled. The fleet was very close at the windward mark with 8 boats rounding the mark within a few boatlengths, they were taken by a wonderful puff to the reaching mark leaving the rest of the fleet half a leg behind in the following lull, even worse a coming shift forced most of these boats to douse the kite to lay the mark this had increased the gap, but on the following leg they were taken back close to the front, However Rob managed to lead the fleet by a leg at least and his lead was increasing to such a comfortable margin that he was on his way to win this race. The finishing lap was raced in a dying wind, all the leaders were stopped powerless watching the rest of the fleet coming back,... fast... the wind was in ribbons, 50 meters wide,wandering across the reservoir and the winning tactic was to stay in the ribbon until you could detect the next one. This tactic paid off and completely changed the ranking at the end of this race which was shortened due to the impredictible conditions we were sailing in.

Lunch time in the wet bar, only to practise how to get a boat out of the water on the edge of the reservoir... not too easy

Race 3 and 4 were raced in front of the club house on a super olympique type of course (triangle - sausage - triangle).

Wind shifted to the left during race 3 transforming the beat into a long port tack direct to the windward buoy. At the same time the wind became steady and made the sailing far easier.

Race 3:
Ann Lane was the only one to choose to sail on the left of the course and despite her boat is slow, she almost rounded the windward mark first,... The rest of the fleet was pretty grouped and the reach has given some beautiful fight to keep the upper line with some nice puffs to increase your adrenaline. The second reach was a run, difficult to know which route was best given the wind shifted twice, apparently the lower route paid off but not by much. Despite Steve had been in the lead for some time, Rob took him over at the next beat in front of a fleet who remained grouped and fighting hard to make it back on the leaders. The wind shifted even more on the left, allowing the rest of the fleet to bridge most of the gap from the leaders, at the same time, the wind build up a bit giving even better conditions, Eventually Rob managed to win the race in front of Steve.

Everything was possible, Rob with two wins and one second, and Steve with one win, one five and one second could both win the series should steve win the last race. Rob had to race the last race and finish not worst than 5, Steve had to win.

Race 4:
Which side to start was almost even. Jean-Baptiste did try a port start which ended up in major confusions and an early start in front of the fleet heading to the left of the course... The worst was avoided though... Quickly Rob was in control but Steve was fighting hard and took the lead, set up the kite on this so tight reach and was the only one. It paid off since he rounded the mark in the first position. Rob and the rest of the fleet were very close and the race has been a close fight all along in a wind which was now steady in strength and direction blowing 2 to 3 or so.

Congratulations to Rob Napier who managed to win the regatta sailing consistently in very shifty and gusty conditions at times. Reading the wind was key to win these races on the reservoir today.

Rob Napier's version of events:

Five visitors joined the club stalwarts for the one-day 505 open meeting at Queen Mary SC. Race officer Neil Beaton set a P course on the far side of the reservoir for the first two races. The wind was a firm force four, but with slants and lighter patches that seemed impossible to predict. In race one, Rob Napier & Kimball Morrison ducked three boats to head right into the stronger breeze. However, Steve Nicholson & Jon Mildred and Richard Sims & Simon Wood steadily closed the gap. Nicholson took the lead on round three and went on to win.

In race two, Napier crossed the fleet on port to build a big lead, which he extended with a lovely gust downwind. But what appeared an unassailable lead became very vulnerable as the wind died. With Napier trying to cover Nicholson and Sims on the shortened course, Melvyn Newman & Alex Cull and Jean-Baptiste Dupont & Jonathan Rennie cannily held a zephyr of wind to pull up to second and third. Napier just scraped in first, but Nicholson was stranded in 5th place - crucial to the final result.

After lunch, an Olympic-type course was set in the main part of the reservoir. The shore lift, now on the right, paid on the first beat, and the order was Nicholson, Napier, Sims. However, a short hitch left on the last beat put Napier in front. Simon Sydenham & Matthew Brittin were fourth, showing some of the boat speed they had demonstrated in Saturday's training.

In the final race, Ann Lane found the pressure on the left, and sailing fast, led almost to the mark, but Jim & Rich Berry rounded first. By the end of the reach, though, it was Nicholson, who held his lead to the finish followed by Napier and Newman.
