http://www.505.ca/events/2001/cdns_rpt.htm

2001 Canadian Championships
Regatta Report
June 15-17, 2001
South Port Sailing Club
Windsor, Ontario
By Hugh Morrin

Well, those who missed it, missed a fabulous regatta! Three days of wind, sun,
great racing, great food and incredible hospitality was what the 2001 Canadian
505 Championships was all about. Hosted by the South Port Sailing Club and
Renka & Adam Gesing, everything came together for this 3-day event sailed on
Lake St. Clair, just outside of Windsor, ON.

This was the fourth five-o regatta hosted by SPSC in as many years, and the
weather on Friday was similar to that of the first two years (I missed it last
year, when apparently, it blew stink). As Canada's most southern city, Windsor
can be hot! Friday's highs were in the low to mid 30's (low 90's for our
American friends), and humid, but thank goodness it was windy! First gun was at
noon Friday, to allow for late arrivals, but by 1630 four races had been
completed, sailing a sausage-triangle-sausage style course. Jeff Boyd and
Martin ten Hove from Kingston proved unbeatable in the gusty and shifty
off-shore breeze, that varied from about 12 to 22 knots, winning all four
races. I was sailing for the first time with Dave Stetson of Columbus, OH, and
managed to finish the first day in second place. (A tear half way across our
spinnaker in the first race forced us to sit out the second, while Dave went
ashore in a motor boat to get a replacement.) The shifty, gusty breeze
challenged many as they got to practice their swimming, and everyone was
feeling like they'd had a good workout by the end of the day (especially those
of us who haven't spent enough time at the gym and on the water!).

The keg from the Walkerville Brewery was cracked shortly after we reached
shore, so we could replace all those lost body fluids! The steak dinner served
up by Sandee Dunlop and her helpers was delicious and ready to eat before most
had finished their first draft! Shortly after dinner, a fast-moving cold front
pushed through a line of thunderstorms, bringing squalls and torrential rains,
but also cooler and drier air with it. Many camped at the club, but their tents
survived and the promise of more wind on Saturday subdued the otherwise
boisterous 505 crowd.

Saturday's forecast was for more wind than on Friday, but the locals said it
wouldn't happen, and they were right. The fifth race was started promptly at
1030 in a light westerly, but by the second beat we were going nowhere, and the
RC made a good decision to abandon the race. It looked like the day might be a
wash-out, but much to my surprise a light easterly filled in and the RC set a
short course. The next race turned out to be one of the most exciting of the
series, with the lead changing on almost every leg. At the finish, however,
Dave and I were a little ahead of Jeff & Martin and the rest of the pack. Two
more races were run in the light breeze that had crews generally sitting on the
tanks, and occasionally trapezing. I concentrated on the ticklers and driving
the boat, as Dave did everything else (I wish I really knew what he was doing
to make the boat go so fast!) At the end of the day, we'd finally given Jeff &
Martin a run for their money, and were sitting one point behind them, ensuring
Sunday's sailing would be exciting. The lighter conditions mixed up the rest of
the fleet as well, though Ki Kaiser and John Badtke had pretty much wrapped up
third place by the end of the second day. (Two drops were allowed after 8
races, which was somewhat unusual.)

The keg was flowing again when we got off the water Saturday, and a decision
was made to hold the Canadian Class Association AGM in the hour and a bit we
had before dinner. A productive meeting with much consensus (see the AGM
Minutes), we finished just in time for Sandee's wonderful Chicken Kiev dinner,
topped off with fresh strawberries and ice cream!

Sunday morning the wind was cranking, but the locals said it would die, and
they were right again! The eighth, and as it turned out, the deciding race, was
started in a light-to-moderate but shifting breeze, and as the wind veered the
beat became very one-sided. We rounded fourth, just ahead of Jeff & Martin, but
let them slip by on a bad tactical decision. Though they looked back many
times, and covered us closely, we never really threatened them, and their win
to our third clinched the regatta for them, and ensured Dave and me of a second
place. The wind continued to veer, challenging and frustrating the race
committee and sailors alike, denying us much beating, but allowing the
completion of the 8th and 9th races of the series. Upon finishing, many 505s
stopped to pick up prospective 505 sailors off the RC boats; I drove the gate
boat in with a few other 505ers, to give others a chance to experience this
wonderful boat.

Boats were packed at a leisurely pace, the results were tabulated, and prizes
awarded. Doug Hennessey donated a coffee roaster, won in a lottery by John
Badtke. Special awards (stylish T-shirts) were presented by Renka, in a variety
of categories, though there should have been an award for Renka and Adam who on
Saturday celebrated their anniversary (they wouldn't say which one!) Kathy &
Steve Long won for most loving 505 couple, Debbie Ashby & Jim Carey (aka Dave
Adams) won for most smiles, Doug Hennessey and Mario Angers won for best
smelling (the coffee!) and the two Wills (Penney and Wentz) picked up T-shirts
for being the newest 505ers on the block. Thanks were extended to the Race
Committee for their terrific job, Sandee Dunlop for her wonderful meals, SPSC
and everyone involved in hosting this fine regatta, but most importantly, to
Renka & Adam. Good-byes were said, and we were on the road by 1500. What a
fabulous regatta! Too bad more people couldn't make it.

