Ontario Championships 2011 - Regatta Report

Posted on September 26, 2011 by DaveAdams


We have all had bad wind this summer. You know those days where an event is
scheduled and you make arrangements, show up and you get crap. Well, for all
those bad wind days of summer, Toronto flushed all those memories down the
toilet and we can now put away our boats this winter with a smile.

Saturday was light, but always enough for the bailers to work and the wind was
absolutely consistent all day long. There was no trapezing but at least the
sails were full. The RC set the marks and left them for the entire day. It
brought tight racing and even Angus was pushing people around with some
unbelievable ability to aggressively out-point and out-speed anyone who was
foolish to be close to him.

Sunday, brought the best sailing that Dave Adams said he has seen in two
years. Adam Gesing claimed it was the best sailing he has seen all year, and
this is after Windsor reported a good summer. It was hot, sunny and from the
east at 10-15 knots with gusts to 20 occaisonally. And because it comes from
the east, we had waves!

The RC had such respect for the needs of 505s that they ran the course way out
to sea giving us all the wave action that develops 300 kms away. Deb and
Dave, used it on the downwinds where they gybe hoisted for all 4 races in the
breeze and riding the waves down to the distance leeward. The guiding
principle was "let your crew call the gybes". This is only applies in wire
running situations because it is the crew that can use the leech on the main
to call the mark. The tried and true rule is, with the crew
positioned well back on the rail, trapping high and waiting for the mark to
reveal itself. That is when you gybe. It works every time.

I think the entire fleet felt bad for the RC because the committee boat was
really sitting all day in some lumpy water. The crash boat was kept extremely
busy rescuing Contender Boats.

Our warmest of thanks to Angus Ross who did so much to make this regatta
wonderful. Nothing but the best wine, craft beer, beautiful cheese, steak and
ice cream, sandwiches, good quality coffee, donuts to keep you planing all day
long. It is really out of this world the treatment you get from this guy.

We also like to mention the young blood of Andrew Gesing/Ian Marentette. Our
next generation of 505 sailors.

All I can say is that for those that did not make it, come next year. You are
almost guaranteed one day of wind. If I recall, last year we had 25-30 on one
day.



505 ONTARIO CHAMPIONSHIP &amp; INTERNATIONAL CONTENDER OPEN
OUTER HARBOUR CENTREBOARD CLUB SEPT 24TH/25TH, 2011

The Canadian 5O5 Class Association
