King of the Bay!!!
Mike Holt
2012-05-07

2012 505 King of the Bay, St Francis Yacht Club

Over the last weekend, May 5/6 a strong fleet of 17 505’s descended on
St Francis Yacht Club for the annual King of the Bay event. This time
run as part of the Elvstrom/Zellerbach regatta.

The fleet assembled was a truly impressive one, multiple World Champions
and added up 25 wins at the North American Championship combined. The
KOTB is sailed every year on the Bay at a time of the year when the wind
is fresh and the conditions testing. Bragging rights for top West Coast
heavy weather sailor are tied down for a year and boats and crewed are
tested to the limit. This year did not disappoint in any way. The breeze
turned up, as did the waves on the afternoon ebb tide and some what
unusually sunny and warm weather graced us with its presence! The racing
was expertly run by the StFYC team, led by Tony Chargin as the PRO and
the countless amazing people out helping him, lay marks, pull flags and
rescue sailors when needed. It is easy to forget the assistance all
these people bring and racing in the Bay just would not be possible
without it, so many thanks from all of us to them.

So, the racing, what you have come here to read about right. We had
three races each day, following a pretty typical pattern, starting light
and building to strong as the day goes along and the heat builds up
inland. Race one got away in 10-12 knots slowly building and the flood
tide still running. Meaning a longer beat and a tough layline call.
Howie and Andy nailed it and led from start to finish in a short, sharp
two lap race. Mike and Jeff followed on their heels in 2nd and Mike and
Carl nipping at theirs in 3rd. Race two was next up and now 3 laps, the
tide was starting to turn and getting the right side of tide lines was
critical, a bit of boat speed to get you there was handy too. Mike/Jeff
had that to lead at the top chased by Mike/Carl, Howie/Andy and Augie
and Fritz. Up the second beat Jeff allegedly some what out of practice
paused to splash around a little letting Carl and I through into the
lead. Not wanting to waste the opportunity we pushed on to win from
Mike/Jeff with Augie/Fritz taking 3rd. Race 3 saw the ebb running hard
and the breeze in full effect. A bay ebb chop was also building and
clearly showing where the current was strongest! Mike/Jeff again lead
the way but Carl and I were able to pass on the first down wind and hold
them off for the next two laps. Unfortunately for the race and as it
turned out the series we could not close this one out, taking a swim
yards from the finish. Mike/Jeff obviously laughing too hard at our
splash over stood the finish letting Howie/Andy threw for the bullet.
Mike/Jeff got 2nd and we crossed the line in 3rd with the spinnaker
wrapped around the spreaders… All in all a great day of racing and tight
throughout the fleet with many close finishes.

As ever, after racing StFYC fed and watered us with cold beer and Chili,
much needed after a good day on the water.

Sunday opened much like Saturday, warm, sunny and no breeze. But after
an hour or so wait a good breeze again filled in and we were treated to
3 more superb races. Race 4 was very much a deja vu for us. Mike and
Jeff sailing away leaving us all to watch and wonder how the hell they
do it. We finished 2nd with Augie/Fritz in close contact in 3rd. Race
5 and the ebb starting to run lead to a general recall and when we
finally get away I will forever have the image of Hubert and Xavier
screaming off the line, putting the big lever to full effect. After the
spray cleared from that Mike and Jeff again lead from Carl and I with
all the usual suspects in close attention and some more very close
finishing. So, into the last race and ho hum very boring Mike and Jeff….
But wait, they get the final run wrong, wiring out to the right while
behind we all gybe set for current relief. As we come back together we
are ahead and Mike/Jeff are neck and neck with Howie/Andy, just managing
to cling to 2nd on the line to win the crown by one point.

Congratulations to Mike and Jeff who despite the one point win really
dominated upwind and a big thanks to everyone for making the event and
having one of the strongest turnouts for a West Coast event in a non
Worlds year for a long time. Particularly to Augie and Tyler for making
the trip from the East Coast. Those of you that did not make it, what
can I say, you missed a good one!
