Santa Cruz Spring Regatta Report - April 17, 2012
Aaron Ross
2012-04-18

Report by Rich Mundell. Nice going in Race 4

Santa Cruz Spring Regatta Report - April 17, 2012

Santa Cruz has a reputation to uphold as an outstanding place to sail
and it certainly did itself some favors this past weekend. All
indications were that Saturday would be a big blow and it was; topping
25 knots by the end of the day. Unfortunately races were limited to two
as the race committee probably had safety concerns with the multiple
fleets out there or something. With most having headed in, 4-5 boats
continued on in the big breeze and waves with some great tuning. With
the BIG swell, downhill was less about tuning and more about survival;
at least for us. It certainly was a major blast and even a bit scary at
times. Our personal triumph was not a single capsize all day….so take
that MikeH and stuff that into your sailing log! J (Note: this time last
year he advised us of a gibe success rate somewhere in the low to
mid-teens).

Sunday was forecast to be relatively light with 5-10 knot winds but the
locals, and even the visitors, were calling BS all morning….and they
were right. Another amazing day of sun and 15-20 knot winds made for an
outstanding 3 races. As is often the case, there was a fairly static
pecking order out there. With the like of MikeH (I’m in Europe), CarlS
(I’m having babies), BruceE (I have no boat in town), MikeM (something
about Naples), MatthiasK (I’m engaged now so no longer sail), and DaveS
(I’m at the spa getting a Brazilian) all not there, Andy and Howie had
mostly bullets. Brian and Ted continued to blow Bob’s and my “we’re too
light for big breeze” excuse out of the water and AugieD and JeffM
neutralized our other stand by excuse about age. On that note, what
other fleet in the world, as physical as the 505, has so many
‘experienced’ sailors consistently kicking ass! Well done to all you
geriatrics in the fleet! It’s nice to know we all have something to look
forward to when you finally retire and let us ‘middle agers’ graduate
onto the podium….probably when we are 60 at the rate you are all going!!
Sheesh!

The official results are a bit screwed up due to some confusion on the
RCs part in race 4 (although Bob and I do appreciate the win, RC!) but
as best as I can work it out the top seven went like this:

1) Andy and Howie
2) Brian and Ted (Tie Breaker)
3) Augie and Luke (Tie Breaker)
4) MikeS / PatD’s Brother and Jeff
5) Myself and Bob
6) Pat and JB
7) Rob and Aaron


Kudos to everyone in the fleet for tackling the conditions and showing
the RC and other classes what 505ers are made of…….and specifically to
the following:

1) JB (John) for joining the fleet and being right in there immediately!
   Welcome!
2) Augie and Luke for making the trek out West to sail in a real ocean.
3) Justin (6’6”, 210lb with own boat) for joining us. Another transplant
   from out east. Glad you found a ride. Even gladder you have your own
   boat since you broke Ian’s! Ha ha.
4) IanO for breaking a mast and still smiling!
5) AJ for allowing Stu to now say to Ryan “You sail like a girl!” and it
   actually be a major compliment!
6) Rob and Aaron for a top finish in the big breeze on day one! Nicely
   done!
7) SCYC Race Committee for an overall job well done in challenging
   conditions. Thanks!
8) ….add your own. There are many others deserved!

Fun times everyone! Hope to see all of you in LA (Cabrillo) in a couple
weeks. Meanwhile we have some delam to fix…..

Cheers,

Rich (CAN 8970)
