Thrilla in Cabrilla
Andy Zinn
2021-04-30

We were greated with another great weekend of 505 sailing.  10 boats
showed up and included Canadians, San Diegans and the balance of the
Southern California 505 fleet.  To bad the Bay Area sailers missed
Saturday where we were treated to 4 long races with the wind between 12
and 20 knots.  The massive right bias of Hurricane Gulch made the track
a bit like NASCAR, but the CBYC team kept the race course square with
all races ranging between 35 and 50 minutes.  A tired group made their
way back to the club around 4pm and were treated to grilled hot dogs and
beer by my mom!

One casualty for the day was Jeff Condon, who broke a carbon pole.
Despite a barrage of questions from the group, we still remain unclear
on how exactly it failed.  Jeff's faithful and handy forward hand,
Reeve, stepped up to the challenge of completing repairs (evidently more
went wrong than just the pole failure) on Sunday.  We hope to see them
back out again on Tuesday, ready to go!

Sunday the conditions completely changed.  The elusive Catalina eddy
moved the breeze more than 90 degrees to the left and never gained more
than 8 knots in strength.  In the light conditions the group was
a little slow out to the course, however the Cabrillo crew was on
station and ready to get some races off.  Unfortunately their exuberance
left 3 boats out of race 5.   3 more races followed as sea conditions
become more and more unstable due to the southeast wind and our
proximity to the sea wall.  Howie commented multiple times that the
conditions mirrored what we face at the Worlds due to the confused sea
and light and shifty winds.  As promised, Don ZInn had the fleet back to
the dock by 4pm with 8 races on the card.  

Rob Waterman and Aaron Ross showed there versatility in all conditions
by coming in third.  505 veteran Don Smith and Kevin Taugher sailed
comfortably to 2nd Place.  It was great to have Kevin back out there and
we hope the 505 bug bit him hard enough for him to get another boat.

Thanks again to CBYC for putting on another great event, we need to
figure out how to get the participation up!

See you all next weekend in San Francisco!
