505 PCC's report Mike Holt 2012-03-23

PCC’s Summary from Brian and Ted.

The 2012 505 Pacific Coast Championships were hosted over three days in
conjunction with the San Diego NOOD Regatta.  Friday’s racing was held
in typical San Diego conditions with Champaign sailing as the
Australians would say. A total of three races were sailed.  Nothing more
than a shorty wetsuit and perhaps a spray top were necessary.  The
conditions were light to moderate with large moves on the runs as teams
managed the benefit of wiring running versus sailing deep.  Not
surprisingly, Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn won the first and second
races, while Ted Conrads and Brian Haines managed to eke out a win just
ahead of Hamlin/Zinn and Holt/Woelfel in the final race of the day.

The conditions on Saturday took a dramatic turn as a large low-pressure
system moved south stirring up a 20-30 knot breeze and downpours.  With
their heads held high most of the 505 fleet made it out to the race
course only to hear that racing had been canceled for the day.  Several
teams took the opportunity to line up for some practice.  Of particular
note were newcomers Jeffrey Condon and Dave Kenny.  Jeff and Dave held
right in there and gained some valuable experience in the breezy
conditions. 

Sunday brought some clearing but even stronger wins.  The race committee
seemed to take notice that the 505 fleet would be going out one way or
another after some gentle persuasion by a few of the competitors.   With
hail coming down - that’s right hail in San Diego, six of the teams
headed out for some racing.  Puffs were pushing thirty knots, making for
some exciting racing.  Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel came out of the gate
strong in the first race as they led around every mark before suffering
a broken pintel just yards before the finish line.  Ultimately Howard
Hamlin and Andy Zinn took both races, capping off a commanding
performance with four 1st place finishes and just one 2nd.  Second went
to Ted Conrads and Brian Haines with a string of second places and just
one win.  AJ Crane and Pat Diola came in third with consistent
performance in the lighter breeze and an impressive handling of Sunday’s
extreme conditions.

A special thanks goes out to the Coronado Yacht Club for putting on
a terrific event and braving the weather on Sunday to hold some great
racing.

