West River Sailing Club
Spring Regatta
May 3,4 1997
Updated 7:56 PM on 5/30/97
Who says it doesn’t blow on the Chesapeake Bay?
Thirteen 505’s showed up for this annual Spring event at West River
Sailing Club. Some people think the number 13 has mystical powers and
may have influenced Mother Nature to vex the competitors with very
strong winds out of almost all directions! Saturday we left the beach
knowing the Thomas Point Lighthouse was reading a consistent 24 knots
out of the south with gusts to 35. The sail back in on Saturday showed
a consistent 30 knots out of the West/Southwest. On Sunday the RC boat
was clocking 20 knots out of the Northwest at the dock in a secluded
cove. Sunday’s racing showed gusts to thirty from almost any northerly
direction. Also big lulls! These were very trying conditions and not one
race had thirteen competitors finish or even start.

Saturday
The sail out to the race course was about enough for most competitors.
With rain, low visibility and gusty winds to 30+ knots and
thundershowers forecasted, most boats stuck their nose around the point
and edged into the Chesapeake Bay before wisely heading back to shore.
After an hour postponement and a better forecast, 10 boats headed out
again and we had three great races in 15-20 knots of breeze. The Stars
and 470s that were supposed to be racing all called it quits at this
point. Race one saw Mike Zani/Peter Alarie show great boathandling and
reaching ability to win the race, after out hoisting Ali Meller/Allan
Johnson on the first reach. Race two was a battle all the way around the
track between Zani/Alarie and Meller/Johnson. There were several lead
changes on the beats, reaches and at marks…. Zani/Alarie continued with
their good reaching speed to overtake Meller/Johnson at the jibe mark,
only to have Meller/Johnson jibe inside (and almost dump). Zani/Alarie
led at the leeward mark, but Meller/Johnson won a drag race to the left
side of the beat and held a half a boat length lead at the weather mark.
Meller/Johnson found a better puff on the right side of the run to lead
at the leeward mark and cover safely for the victory. Race three the
battle continued but the famous Macy Nelson/John Fry team joined the
fray. A great exciting race with good, tight reaches and all boats
planing upwind as well. Nelson/Fry charged up into the race and
capitalized on a poor takedown by Zani/Alarie when a huge puff forced
everyone low on the 2nd reach. It looked like an easy victory for
Meller/Johnson but this was a "OL" course with a finish downwind and
here come Nelson/Fry and Zani/Alarie charging across the river in a huge
puff. They closed the distance on the leaders, but Meller/Johnson held
on for the victory with Zani/Alarie and Nelson/Fry finishing within
5 seconds of the winners.

It was great to see several new boats on the water including two green
Waterats being sailed by Barney Harris/Jesse Falsone and Jim
Englert/Thad Melton. Tom Price was out in his "new" Rondar, making its
U.S. debut. Steven Brown recruited Allan Freedman to crew for him, The
O’Briens were out of course, Bob Robinson was sailing "Force 5" with its
new cored deck. Mark Freedman/Phillipe Gouboult were out, as was
Jonathan Phillips/Monty Schumpert and …. Who is that in the white boat?
None other than Gary Bodie/Kevin Eley! And crewing for Ken Elliott? It’s
Mark "Wheels" Wheeler! Talk about Class Stalwarts!

Sunday
This was tricky racing in shifting, puffy conditions. Race 4 showed
Harris/Falsone rounding the top mark in first (new boats are nice) with
Zani/Alarie, Meller/Johnson close behind. All three boats jibed about
the same time but Zani/Alarie picked the right lane and led at the
leeward mark. What a wild beat with huge shifts that showed Zani/Alarie
way ahead and then Meller/Johnson way ahead. At the top mark they were
close to even but Zani/Alarie maintained their lead only to lose it when
they rounded the leeward mark and their main halyard broke. This gave
the victory to Meller/Johnson with Nelson/Fry second.

By the time Race 5 started, most of the fleet had the conditions figured
out and we had a very close race. Meller/Johnson were very fast off the
start line and had a commanding lead only to give most of it back trying
to cover both sides in big shifts. As the fleet approached the jibe mark
the big puff of the day hit and 4 boats dumped including Meller/Johnson
and Zani/Alarie. Bodie/Eley sailed through the carnage into first place
with Meller/Johnson recovering for second and Nelson/Fry in third.
Bodie/Eley held on for the beat - courtesy of a nice shift on the right
after Meller/Johnson had ground past them - and run, with Meller/Johnson
very close behind. Up the final beat Bodie and Meller blasted right with
Zani and Nelson blasting left. All four of these boats were looking like
victors depending on the puff or direction of the puff. In the end it
was Meller/Johnson at the line, Bodie/Eley second, Zani/Alarie third and
Nelson/Fry fourth. Big Grins on everybody’s face!!!

Principal Race Officer: Dave Irey

