Windy, Cold and Wet 5o5 East Coast Championship

Updated 4:13 PM on 6/10/97

US 5o5 Fleet 8, Hampton Virginia, hosted the 1997 East Coast Championship at
Hampton Yacht Club, on the 6th - 8th of June.

Hampton's reputation for warmth and light or medium breezes was badly
tarnished, as a high and an adjacent low combined to make this part of the Mid
Atlantic region one of the coldest places in North America. Instead of 85
Degrees F, it was 55! Wind was quite a bit more than normally experienced in
Hampton, with 18-22 knots on the Friday and Saturday. Sunday's weather was
slightly closer to normal, with 8-12 knots, and temperatures nudging into the
60s.

With many top East Coast teams loading their boats next weekend into a
container bound for Long Beach and the North American Championship, the ECC was
one of the last opportunities to test speed and boathandling prior to the NAs.
Most - but not all - of the top East Coast teams attended.

Teams included:

Intercollegiate sailor of the year 1994 and US 470 Olympic trialist, Tyler
Moore, 5th at the '95 5o5 Worlds, racing with Scott Ikle, sailing coach at
Hobart William Smith college and multiple time 5o5 East Coast Champion crew, in
Tyler's '96 Waterat.

Naval Acadamy racer, Intercollegiate sailor of the year 1995 and US 470 Olympic
trialist (crewing for Tyler), Ryan Cox, 5th at the '95 5o5 Worlds crewing for
Tyler, racing with Carl Smit, also a Naval Academy sailing team graduate, in
Ryan's '96 Waterat.

Three time 5o5 North American Champion and '95 5o5 East Coast Champion Macy
Nelson, sailing with past Laser II World Champion, Mark Mendelblatt.

Well known intercollegiate sailing coach, Gary Bodie, sailing with long time
5o5 partner and ace crew, Kevin Eley, in a 5o5 they chartered for the spring
regattas and the East Coast Championship.

Four time 5o5 East Coast Champion and top Interclub racer, Neal Fowler, racing
with his long time 5o5 partner, ace 5o5 crew Dave Dyson.

Defending 5o5 East Coast Champions, Ali Meller and Allan (two "L") Johnson.

Three time - in a row! - US Albacore National Champion, Barney Harris, racing
with IMS leadmine and Interclub racer, Jesse Falsone, in Barney's new Waterat.

Past 470 North American champion, Tim Collins, racing with his regular crew,
5o5 and Vanguard racer, Bill Smith, in their re-rigged Rondar.

Hampton One Design ace, Latane Montague, racing with cousin Robert Montague, in
Latane's recently acquired 5o5.

Ex East Coast I-14 ace and recent E scow racer, Tom Price, racing in his newly
acquired Rondar 5o5 with his brother.

Top Canadian sailor Hugh Morrin racing with new 5o5 owner Michael Hoffman.

Hampton 5o5 aces, and winners of the WRSC 5o5 Regional just 2 weeks earlier,
Jim Englert and Thad Melton, racing their new Waterat.

Intercollegiate all American and now grad student and part time sailing coach
Stergios Papadakis, racing with Sol Marini, who chartered a 5o5 for the
midwinters, and acquired an old Rondar very recently.

Long time 505 racers Bob (helm) and Betsy (crew) O'Brien.

The son and father team of Dylan Breton (helm) with Dad Mike on the wire.

Friday race 1- 18-21 knots, cold, windy, old Olympic course, 1 mile legs. Ken
Elliott/Mark Wheeler in 7092 were the pathfinder.

Meller/Johnson, sporting new Kevlar/mylar North main and jib, had excellent
upwind and downwind speed to win this race, with lightweights Moore/Ikle
sailing very fast to pull through into 2nd. Lightweight Hampton aces Jim
Englert/Thad Melton were 3rd, Macy Nelson/Mark Mendelblatt 4th, Naval Academy
stars Ryan Cox/Carl Smit - who were racing their first 5o5 regatta together -
5th, Tom Kivney/Todd Johnson 6th. The 505s revelled in the conditions, planing
fast over the top of most of the chop upwind, and planing downwind rather
faster than the waves. Most teams were raked far aft to depower the rigs.
Collins/Smith broke their mast on the way out to the race when a vectran line
in their shrould adjustment system broke where it was tied to a shackle. They
were able to repair the mast with a sleeve in time to Race Saturday morning.
Phillips/Schumpert broke their 11 year old rudder on the way out to the start,
but were towed back to the club and grabbed a spare in time to make the start.

Friday race 2 - 18-22 knots, cold, windy, building ebb, old Olympic course.
Neal Fowler/Dave Dyson in 8083 were the pathfinder.

A tighter battle at the front, with Meller/Johnson breaking through for the
win, and Moore/Ikle 2nd again, a very fast Cox/Smit team 3rd, Englert/Melton
4th, and Nelson/Mendelblatt 5th.

For both the Friday and Saturday racing in the breeze, many of the top teams
chose to sail the runs at very high angles, with the pole foreward, the crew on
the trapeze, and the boat planing very fast. The much greater speed allowed
these teams to catch and pass waves, getting them down the run faster than
those sailing lower and trying to surf on individual waves.

The Race Committee had mercy on the fleet and sent them in rather than trying
to run a late afternoon 3rd race... The fleet adjourned to the bar to warm up
and soothe aches and bruises. Once warmed up, showered and comfortable, most of
the fleet went out for dinner together.

Saturday Race 3, 18-22 knots, cold, wet and windy, old Olympic course.
Latane/Robert Montague in 7346 were the pathfinder.

The left, closer to shore, was favored early on. Cox/Smit powered upwind for
the win, with Nelson/Mendelbatt a close 2nd, and Meller/Johnson pulling through
from a bad first beat into 3rd, Fowler/Dyson 4th, Moore/Ikle 5th.

Saturday Race 4, 18-22 knots, cold, wet and windy, old Olympic Course.
Henry/Doug Amthor in 8012 were the pathfinder.

The left, closer to shore, seemed favored on the first beat. A close pack
rounded the weather mark and hoisted. Meller/Johnson almost flipped while
hoisting, and spent some time trying to keep the mast out of the water before
regaining control of their swamped boat. Moore/Ikle sailed a great race to win,
with Cox/Smit 2nd, Nelson/Mendelblatt picking their way through into 3rd,
Collins/Smith 4th, and Meller/Johnson recovering to 5th.

Saturday Race 5, 18-22 knots, cold, wet and windy, Worlds Course. Jonathan
Phillips/Monty Schumpert in 7879 were the pathfinder.

Cox/Smit were going very fast after gating late, and appeared to be leading
early on. Meller/Johnson, who gated early, drag raced left for the shore and
tacked just short of the layline, where they were joined by several other teams
hoping for the left shift. The back came through in time to put Meller/Johnson
around the mark first. They set immediately and lead the fleet down the first
reach, 30 degrees below the rhumb line. Moore/Ikle managed to stay high,
probably by 2 sail reaching first. The boats carrying spinnakers either doused
or uncleated their halyards and two sail reached up to the mark. Moore/Ikle
gained considerable ground and were into 2nd behind Meller/Johnson at the mark.
These two teams stayed close, with Meller/Johnson gaining a little ground
upwind, and Moore/Ikle gaining a little downwind. For the second triangle,
Meller/Johnson chose to two sail reach first, only to hoist in a lull and broad
reach down to the gybe mark, while Moore/Ikle carried the kite for the full leg
and sailed through into the lead at the gybe mark. On the gybe their tiller
extension caught in the boom and spinnaker pole, forcing Moore/Ikle to gybe
back, free the extension and then gybe again, allowing Meller/Johnson to regain
the lead. The second reach was memorable, with poles on the forestay, boards
most of the way up, and the 5o5s flying back to the leeward mark and RC boat.
Members of the RC were heard afterwards saying they had never seen boats go so
fast. Meller/Johnson loose covered Moore/Ikle for the win, Moore/Ikle were 2nd,
Nelson/Mendelblatt 3rd, Fowler/Dyson 4th, Amthor/Amthor 5th. Cox/Smit fell back
when they sailed over their spinnaker sheet at a leeward mark, and finished
10th.

Once again, the RC had mercy for the fleet, and sent the 5o5s in rather than
trying to run a 6th race (4th for the day) on the Saturday. After liberal
dosages of muscle relaxants, painkillers and alcohol - for medicinal purposes
only - the fleet had dinner at the Hampton Yacht Club, and re-lived the day's
adventures.

Sunday Race 6, 7-12 knots, old Olympic Course. Shifty and puffy.  In the
lighter breezes, the fleet was rather closer. Albacore ace Harris/Falsone gated
early and came out of the left looking very good early on, Jonathan
Phillips/Monty Schumpert were also fighting for the lead with Englert/Melton
and Elliott/Wheeler close behind. Most of the fleet chose to go left and then
right, but some interesting shifts and puffs mixed the fleet up as it
approached the windward mark. Englert/Melton got by Harris/Falsone. After some
nerve racking reaches, a close pack rounded the leeward mark, with most teams
opting to go left towards shore again. However a slight veer and a puff allowed
Meller/Johnson to pull though from 4th into the lead by the windward mark. The
fleet closed down the run, with Meller/Johnson just holding onto their lead
over Fowler/Dyson, Englert/Melton and Elliott/Wheeler. Once again most of the
leaders chose to go hard left, with Meller/Johnson loose covering.. Close to
the left corner, Fowler/Dyson squeezed off Meller/Johnson and took the lead.
The two leaders were coming in almost on the port tack layline but were blocked
from the finish line by two tug and barge tows coming through the barge
channel. With the choice being 1st or perhaps 10th or worse, the stakes were
high. Dave Dyson could be heard saying "I don't know about this, Neal!", but
Neal Fowler had brass balls and sailed between the two tows, crossing the 2nd
one easily. Realizing it could be done, Meller/Johnson followed and were also
able to cross the second tow. Fowler/Dyson won, Meller/Johnson were 2nd,
Elliott/Wheeler 3rd, Englert/Melton 4th, and Moore/Ikle 5th.

Sunday Race 7, 8-14 knots. Worlds course. Nelson/Mendelblatt in 8191 were the
pathfinder.  Once again Harris/Falsone led early, but were unable to hold on.
Englert/Melton and Amthor/Amthor broke away into a big lead, with
Harris/Falsone 3rd and Meller/Johnson 4th with a pack of four more immediately
behind. Some problems at the leeward mark dropped Harris/Falsone by a couple of
places, letting Meller/Johnson and Nelson/Fry through. While the leaders - with
the exception of Englert/Melton - went hard left, Harris/Falsone,
Nelson/Mendelblatt, Collins/Smith and Moore/Ikle went a little right first and
then left. A gradual veer pulled them past Meller/Johnson and got them closer
to Amthor/Amthor. While the first two teams were slightly punched out, the next
five places were very close at the windward mark and down the run. Up the
penultimate beat places changed again, as a slight veer and puff from the right
came through. Englert/Melton led, Amthor/Amthor were in 2nd. Nelson/Mendelblatt
were rolled at the hoist by Meller/Johnson, who pulled into 3rd at the gybe
mark. Another memorable blast reach caught the Amthors and Englert/Melton low
of the mark, struggling to get up to it. While most leaders carried their
kites, Fowler/Dyson went high first and then hoisted. Englert/Melton doused
early and retained their lead. Amthor's, sailing a bag boat, could not douse
easily, but managed to carry the kite into the mark, while Meller/Johnson also
sailing a bag boat pulled into an inside overlap. Frantic last minute douses
got both teams around the mark, with Meller/Johnson in front. Close behind were
Nelson/Mendelblatt, Collins/Smith and Moore/Ikle.

Englert/Melton loose covered to the finish line for the win. Amthor/Amthor,
Nelson/Mendelblatt and Collins/Smith went hard left, with Meller/Johnson going
right early and then left to loose cover. Moore/Ikle went harder right looking
for more favorable current and were able to take advantage of a puff and veer.
Amthor/Amthor bailed out of the left corner early to pick up Moore/Ikle.
Meller/Johnson crossed 2nd and watched as Collins/Smith led Nelson/Mendelblatt
into the finish from the left side, and Amthor/Amthor led Moore/Ikle in from
the right. Collins/Smith crossed 3rd, but Nelson/Mendelblatt had to duck both
Amthor/Amthor (4th) and Moore/Ikle (5th), crossing 6th.

Finishes of 1,1,3,5,1,2,2 (11.7 points - bonus point system) gave the East
Coast Champion title to Ali Meller/Allan Johnson for the second straight year.
Moore/Ikle's 2,2,5,1,2,5,5 (29 points) put them solidly in 2nd, ahead of
Nelson/Mendelblatt's 4,5,2,3,3,9,6 (44.1 points). Cox/Smit faded in Sunday's
lighter conditions; their 5,3,1,2,10,13,11 (51.7 points) was good for 4th,
while Fowler/Dyson's 7,9,4,7,4,1,7 (55 points) put them very close behind in
5th.

Jim Englert's parents, owners of Hi-Tech Engraving, had done a beautiful job
restoring the 5o5 East Coast Championship trophy - dating back to 1961 - and
bringing all the engraving up to date. Hi-Tech Engraving also made some
gorgeous keeper trophies, engraving the 5o5 line drawing on a plaque.

Thanks to Joe Hallissy and Clyde Winters for yet another great job as Race
Committee, and thanks to fleet 8 for their hospitality in billeting almost all
visitors.
