Bristol 505 Regatta

Many Thanks to Bristol Yacht Club for providing us with an excellent sailing
site, great sailing conditions, and a great race committee.

The Bristol Regatta on May 17-18 was a great success with 11 boats in
attendance, up from last year's 7 even though some key northeast boats were
unable to attend because they are out of the country.

Ed. Competing in the Wilson Trophy - Team Racing - in the UK. The event was won
by Team Pablo Picasso (Zack Leonard, Nick Trotman, Victoria Wadsworth, Josh
Adams, Blaire Largay, and Megan Bohlen) - way to go!

Saturday started with wind around 20 Knots and overcast conditions. It was
obvious that many of us were still shaking the cobwebs out for this early
season regatta as a lot of us did some swimming and few people dared to fly
their chutes. Two heavy air races were completed.

Sunday morning started with a 5-8 knot land breeze that offered marginal
trapping at times for the first race. By the second race, the breeze had died
further, and as the fleet was heading down the first reach, it died altogether
and then went left about 90 degrees, turning the reach into a beat. By the time
the boats reached the leeward mark, the breeze had gone back to its original
direction, giving us another long beat in 2-5 knots. On the run the wind died
completely, turning the race into an epic driftfest. As the fleet finally
crossed the finish line, the RC suggested we stay out there as the sea breeze
would surely fill in.

Sure enough, twenty minutes later, the see breeze filled to a steady 8 knots,
and a race was started. Just as the rabbit was passing the start bouy, the wind
kicked up to about 18 knots in the space of 5 seconds, making skippers
frantically try to depower their rigs just as they were ducking the rabbit. The
cobwebs were all gone by this race, as chute after chute popped out at the
windward mark for two screaming reaches. The fourth race was a full olympic
course sailed in 20+, with the whole fleet starting on time at the rabbit and
blasting full speed all the way around the course.

My apologies to those whose names I don't have or whose names were misspelled.
Welcome to newcomers to the class Mark Andrews and Ian Hopkins, who sailed
their first 505 regatta, and welcome back to Ian Torrie and his crew after a
long break. Apologies again if I've missed you as a first-timer.

Ed. This event saw the US debut of Rondars 8240 and 8024, imported from the UK
within the past few weeks. Congratulations to Chris Museler on his new boat
(and to Ian Hopkins who now owns 6311), and to David Chatham new to the 505
class in 8024

Thanks again to our Race Committee:
Will Pierce
Ron Beausoleil
Mike Lemieux
These guys did a great job! I'll definitely be back next year and I hope to see you there.
Stergios


