Washington Yacht Club's Snowflake Regatta - Jan. 11/12, 1997

By Alan (one "L") Johnson
On Jan. 11/12 the Washington Yacht Club

http://weber.u.washington.edu/d51/sailing/ held it's second annual
Snowflake Regatta on Lake Washington in Seattle. There were four
classes, Lasers(8), 420's(3), Hobies(3) and 505's(5).

Rainer Leuschke, the WYC 505 fleet captain and Dave Stienmier dominated
the 505 class, winning all seven races. The teams of Courter/Linde and
Johnson/Ernst managed to lead at a number of marks, but
Leuschke/Stienmier were first to finish every race.

The biggest news of the weekend was the weather. On Saturday,
temperatures skyrocketed to near 50f degrees! Winds were out of the
north, 3 - 10kt. Sunday was completely sunny, temperatures reached 40+f.
Winds on Sunday were out of the east/northeast 3 - 12. After the weather
we've been having, no one dreamed we could get excellent sailing weather
like this. I'm serious!

Leuschke, WYC 505 fleet captain, claimed Kyrwood 6477 for himself and
Stienmier; 6477 is the pride of the WYC fleet. John Courter and Rebecca
Linde sailed Parker 1515. Rebecca and John, usually Hobie sailors,
sailed a 505 in this event and did an excellent job, taking second
place. Alan "one L" Johnson and Billy Ernst sailed Parker 1615. Johnson
and Ernst switched places for this event, Johnson helmed for the first
time while Ernst got his first shift up front. Sue Athmann helmed her
boat, Parker 1911, this was Sue's first regatta, with her was 505 owner
(Parker 4019), Paul Von Grey. Peter Serafin brought what I'm certain is
the oldest 505 still sailing. Peter's boat was made by Clark, here in
Seattle, it looks much older than our numbered club boats. Crewing in
Peter's boat was another new 505 owner (Kyrwood 67XX), Terence Spies.

The recent bad weather made it difficult for anyone to find crew,
pairing up boat owners kept three 505s from sailing. The third boat
being John Dean's Rondar 5518. John attended the event, but without crew
or a spinnaker halyard, he didn't sail.

The races:
Race one - At the skippers meeting we were told about the triangle
course we would be using, a secondary windward leeward course may be
used. Johnson/Ernst got a great start and led by 75 yards at the
windward mark. Following the Hobie ahead, Johnson/Ernst proceed toward
the reach mark... You can guess the rest. I thought the big W on the
board was to signify "Washington Yacht Club." Windward/leeward, duh.
Leuschke/Stienmier cruised to a first place finish after pulling away
from Courter/Linde on the run.

Race two - Leuschke/Stienmier lead at the first mark and never looked
back. Johnson/Ernst rounded the leeward mark ahead of Courter/Linde,
however a near windward capsize and subsequent inadvertent 360 with
a boat full of water took them out of contention. Serafin/Spies finished
third. Athmann/Von Grey's spin halyard simply wouldn't go up or down
without major effort. Half their run was spent getting the chute up, the
other half getting it down.

Race three - Almost a duplicate of race two. Leuschke/Stienmier lead
from start to finish. Courter/Linde and Johnson/Ernst battled for second
on the final leg. Courter/Linde took second by "about two feet."
Serafin/Spies fourth, Athmann/Von Grey fifth.

Race four - Leuschke/Stienmier lead from start to finish. Again
Courter/Linde and Johnson/Ernst battled for second on the final leg.
This time Johnson/Ernst won out. Serafin/Spies finished a much closer
fourth. Athmann/Von Grey now have a chance to do something about their
spinnaker problem.

Sunday morning Bates McKee gave an excellent talk about Seattle area
wind patterns, specifically in the two places we sail the most. Thank
you Bates!

Race five - Leuschke/Stienmier went right, good decision. Athmann/Von
Grey, now using a makeshift external spin halyard, are in contention for
a while but don't seem to have the boat speed to hang in.

Race six - Surprise! This race was all Johnson/Ernst. Johnson/Ernst push
Courter/Linde over early and lead around all marks of the shorter, twice
around triangle course. Courter/Linde recover nicely and keep
Leuschke/Stienmier blanketed downwind. Johnson/Ernst round the leeward
mark 100 yards ahead. Johnson/Ernst continue in a southeasterly
direction on Port tack, stopping in one of the few complete holes of the
weekend. Ernst reassures me that the others will also be without wind.
Leuschke/Stienmier round, followed closely be Courter/Linde and
Serafin/Serafin. A gust comes in from the north, about a thirty degree
lift pointing them straight toward the finish! By the time the wind
reaches Johnson/Ernst, they are behind all three boats. Subsequent
swearing in both english and spanish didn't seem to help.

Race seven - Courter/Linde lead at both marks, however trouble dousing
allows Leuschke/Stienmier sneak by while they are busy. A clean sweep
for Leuschke/Stienmier.

    The regatta was very well run. Thanks are due to Dave Banks and the
    rest of the race committee. The local Hobie fleet deserves thanks
    for loaning us their marks.

        Hopefully this is the first of many regattas the Seattle area
        505 fleet attends this year.

        -Alan Johnson
