505 Midwest Championship/Fall Sandusky Open

Dave Stetson

The annual pilgrimage to Sandusky provided a great deal of excitement again
this year. The first cold front of Fall came through Friday evening and
Saturday morning with high winds (30 mph) and torrential rains. The early
arrivers discovered all of the leaks in their tents and considered rigging
their boats to try the waters of the new lake in the parking lot. When the bulk
of the fleet arrived Saturday morning, we rigged to the tune of shrouds driven
by winds of 25-35 mph out of the NNW. By race time, however, the winds
moderated to 12-18 out of the NNE. The race committee gave the 11 505s, 6
Interlakes, and 6 Windmills three solid races on olympic triangles with 3/4 - 1
mile windward legs. The pattern was set early with Alexander/Koenig showing the
way with flawless crew work and wise decision-making, Dohan/Zetti using their
good speed to overcome a season-long absence from the circuit, and the rest of
us fighting it out for the remaining places. The Gesings, Kaiser/Badtke, and
Stetson/Agrell tended to dog the leaders a bit, but only rarely took a nip out
of their rumps. Tuten/Fleming showed good consistency to place 7th overall. The
bad air really started to build around 6th or 7th place on the tight course.
Simon Addicott brought a beautifully maintained 5091 to the regatta and showed
good up-wind speed to be with the leaders at the first weather mark, but novice
crew made the spinnaker work troublesome. Don't get me wrong! Mitch Stonestreet
is going to be excellent crew. He's the right size and he has the desire. He's
just never done this sailing thing before. Barret (I think he's 13 now) and
Andrew also were a factor for a few in the front to deal with. Their excellent
up-wind speed and their light weight combined to keep them hanging around.
Terman/Gunderson had a small lack of speed, but they had no major mishaps and
were close on the heels of the lead pack. Geoff Cashman and Clayton Bader
joined up for the first time and showed moments of promise, but more experience
will make them more competitive. Finally, the Goetz's also had moments of
brilliant speed, but they had a few rigging issues to deal with, and their
particularly light crew weight and heavy boat weight were issues most of the
weekend. All in all, it was a rather impressive fleet; everyone was a player.
The number of "classic" boats must make this the premier regatta for the old
beauties. We would like to have more!

OK, back to the racing. The starts were important! Line starts were the order
of the weekend and 11 boats on a rather short line (not unreasonably so) made
the starts a bit crowded.. Those who got away with clear air and were able to
make it out to a left-side lift were the first to the windward mark. Cedar
Point Amusement Park was just up-wind of the windward mark and seemed to be
causing the wind to wrap around a bit. There was some give and take on the
reaches with those playing the puffs chewing away some of the separation with
the leaders. John Dohan led at the gybe mark, but a small, wet mishap dropped
them a place, with Alexander pouncing on the opportunity. The Gesings also had
some sort of faux pas at the windward mark which lost them three places then
and there. To tell you the truth, I don't know much about what went on behind
me. I tried to remain optimistic, looking forward or to windward most of the
time. The second race followed the general pattern of the first, as did all of
the others, in fact. One of the few other memorable moments was in the third
race; a capsize by Rhodes/Gassman at the leeward mark put some ugly brown-black
goo all over the head of their main. This regatta seemed to lack high anxiety
and classic drama, but it was fun! Maybe someone else has a different view on
this and will share it with us. One major exception of which I am aware: after
derigging, I set my tent and staked it down solidly. While I was in getting a
shower, the wind increased to 25-30 and ripped all of the stakes out of the
ground. (I have one of the self-supporting tents.) The structure was seen
rising to the mastheads, headed out into the bay. Apparently, it bounced off a
mast and was snagged by Geoff Cashman. One pole snapped, but duct tape and guy
lines made the thing habitable again. Saturday evening saw visits to movies,
ice cream, and stuff like that.

During the night, the wind was a source of concern. It had increased to 30-40
with puffs in the 50s, I suspect. It was a noisy night. With the sun, though,
the wind died to 8-15 out of the N. This wind was patchy and had some major
directional variations. Places changed a bit just on the basis of which side of
the starting line one chose to go on the second windward leg. The leeward mark
also was in the center of a hole in the wind, and there must have been a
down-wind shift of some 60 degrees on approaching that mark. If you came at the
mark from the right on starboard gybe, the gybe kept getting postponed; if you
came from the left, a gybe was almost unnecessary. It kept one on one's toes.

As usual, the Sandusky Sailing Club were excellent hosts. It's a good place for
5-ohs to gather, and next year there will be a resident fleet at the club, we
expect. Unfortunately, next year the World Champs will conflict with this
regatta. Somehow, we must assure SSC that we have not abandoned them!

David L. Stetson, PhD
Department of Zoology
The Ohio State University
1735 Neil Avenue
Columbus, OH 43210 USA
Ph: 614 292-5307; Fx: 614 292-2030
Email: stetson.1@osu.edu
505 USA 7790
