Hyannis Pre-Pre Worlds September 18-20

22 boats participated in a practice regatta designed to help sailors and
committee get tuned up, pumped up, and excited about next year's Worlds.
Conditions were challenging for the committee throughout the three day event
with 3 cancelled races due to fog and high wind. No races were held on Sunday
as a cold front passed through New England dropping the temperatures from near
80 for the first two days to the 50's for Sunday. Conditions were on the breezy
side for all races that were completed. Races were held in the "normal" race
circle about 2 miles off Hyannisport in Nantucket Sound, the same circle
utilized for the Hyannis Annual regatta. The committee will be moving the race
track further off shore for the Worlds for a couple of reasons: deeper water to
prevent post-capsize dismastings, and reduction of a slight bias towards the
shoreward side of the course on the upwind legs (depending on tide). "We'll
have you guys half way to Nantucket; don't you worry about that!" one committee
member was quoted as saying after racing one evening. The highlight of the
sailing was definitely the fast and tight two sail reaching (the second of
which were usually makeable with a chute) in 4-6 feet of choppy sea. For those
of us who have been around these boats for a while it was some of the best,
fastest sailing ever. Most races were kept as Modified Olympics with Worlds
angles on the reaches. Some of the top sailors were faked out in the first
race, missing the finish line because they assumed all races would be Worlds
courses. Although the races were shorter in time and distance, getting a number
of races in insured the committee would receive adequate practice setting
reaches and conducting gate starts, which for the most part were right on the
money. Once again the HYC members should be commended for an incredible effort
in some challenging conditions, including the cancellation of a race on Friday
as a thick, 20 foot visibility fog settled-in on the course. Valuable Lesson:
Don't throw away the sailing area chart after you read the instructions! You'll
need that compass rose! Those of you who don't will get to greet Joan Kennedy's
security detail on Squaw Island about three miles west of the harbor (true
story).

Oh, the racing...local Tyler Moore and old man Scott Ikle won the event
handily; after them the racing was very tight with a strong showing from the
Chesapeake contingent including Fleet 19's Johnathan Phillips and Les Crane and
Southern Bay's Kenney Elliot and Allen Kilgore. Canadians Hugh Morrin and
Michael Hoffman were runners-up to the local hero. Older men Tom Kivney and
Todd Johnson (combined age 120 or something...) sailed fast in the breeze and
captured fourth.
