Report from Geoff Cashman on the
1997 Hoover Spring Regatta


Greetings,

The 1997 505 Hoover Spring Regatta was a rousing success! We had more boats at
this regatta than we've had at Hoover in quite some time. In all, 14 boats were
at this regatta.

Winds were great on Saturday, with a consistent breeze at 15kts out of the
northwest with gusts hitting up to around 20kts, sometimes a bit more. I had
just purchased a 505 the night before and was very eager to get into my first
race with her, but a Waterat got in the way of my plans when it hit our boat,
and my crew got mashed. So, the boat went up on land for the remainder of the
day and I saw four of the five races on Saturday from the commitee boat.

Saturday featured 5 races, numerous capsizes, and lots of fun! All races were
set as triangle, windward, leeward, windward finish. Graham led almost every
race, though in one race Ki Kaiser managed to keep Graham behind him until the
downwind run. Even then it was close. Ki played the side of the course where
wind had been all day, and Graham split off to the right side looking for wind,
and as if nature answered only to Graham, a nice puff filled in on the right
side and off Graham went. At the windward mark, Graham was behind by 9 seconds.
By the leeward mark he was ahead, and finished the race 4 seconds ahead of Ki.

Races for second place were generally pretty close, with lots of changes.
Several boats showed good speed on the reaches. Though it certainly would have
been more fun being on a 505 in these winds, we did have a good time watching
from the commitee boat. On one particular reach in a very nice puff, Graham
could be heard clear across the lake letting out a whoop of sheer joy as he and
Mark Koenig blasted off on a 3 sail reach. One of the race finishes featured a
very, very close finish between two boats vying for 5th (?) place. The boat
that beat out the 6th place finisher won by the narrowest of margins, with the
crew out on the trap being the first part of either boat to cross the line.

It was apparent that many sailors were shaking off the rust from the winter.
One boat forgot to put their drain plugs into the boat before launching, and
after a capsize had some difficulty in getting the boat dry. In fact, they kept
getting lower and lower in the water. The commitee head saw this, and commented
"Dive! Dive! Dive!" :) They did manage to straighten things out though and
sailed well after that.

Saturday evening the entire fleet was invited to dinner at a 505 sailor's house
nearby. Food, drink, and good times were had by all. Later in the evening, we
made use of the massive television they had (I'd guess it was a 45" screen) and
played a tape showing Aussie-18 racing. Thanks to Carol Alexander, we also got
to see some videotape of the 505 sailing earlier in the day. Special thanks to
our hosts for this party. It was really wonderful. Those same hosts also
cranked out french toast on Sunday morning and brought it down to the club for
everyone. Is that hospitality or what?

Sunday morning showed promise of bringing a warmer, if less windy day. Winds
had shifted around 90 degrees or so and had fallen off to about 10kts. Much to
my extreme surprise, my crew said he was ready and willing to go sailing. We
played it safe in both races on Sunday, not being terribly aggressive. Neither
of us felt comfortable with the boat yet, and my crew was still sore from the
accident, and was not very flexible. So, the view from the back of the fleet
showed Graham leading again for both races, with a tight pack in the 2nd to 7th
or so places. Racing appeared to be neck and neck in many situations with
positions being rapidly changed yet again. We managed to break the lower
gudgeon on our rudder and had to drop out of the second race. Heading back into
the dock under tow, we looked back and saw that Graham had finished and was
heading back our way. By the time we got back to the dock, Graham had managed
to close the gap by about half, moving much faster than we were under tow!

The complete results from this regatta can be found on the Midwest 505 page at
http://satori.ucs.indiana.edu/~sail505. In all, there were 7 races with one
throwout. Graham and Mark won every race and had to throw out a first place
finish! Point totals were very close throughout much of the standings with only
a few points seperating many spots. Ki Kaiser and John Badtke finished with 14
points, and Dylan and Mike Breton finished third with 16.

It was really a great regatta, certainly one of the best in recent years in the
region. Lots of boats, lots of people, great racing, good winds, and great
hospitality made for a great combination.

I never cease to be amazed at the receptiveness and overall camaraderie of the
505 class. I'm now beginning my 3rd year in the class and am still stunned by
the willingness of everyone to help out where needed, without hesitation. A
clear example of this was shown even before my crew and I had gotten to the
lake on Friday evening. The boat I purchased was at the house of the
soon-to-be-ex owner, approximately 2 miles away from the lake. After we'd been
at this house for a bit, another 505 sailor, Jim Tuten, showed up. I hadn't
spoken to him since last year. But, he was the 2nd owner of this boat, before
the guy I was buying from, and wanted to make sure everything was going ok and
also helped us transport some of the gear to the yacht club. I sincerely hope I
never take such helpfullness for granted.

- Geoff Cashman US-6660
