The Pumpkin Patch Regatta, October 18-19
The Uncensored Report
by Jonathan Phillips

After two light air/drifter regattas at West River Sailing Club this fall, the
conditions for the Pumpkin Patch regatta were a relief. Sure, it was a bit cold
and rainy, but it could have been alot colder and rainier. The local forcast
called for high winds that didn't materialize.

The Pumpkin Patch regatta has always been a great, low key event. A good time
to pull out the old sails, try new partners, experiment with the rig, etc. This
year it was even better due to the high turnout, ten boats!! And all were
members of Fleet 19.

Four races were sailed on Saturday and two on Sunday. The wind was
northeasterly at 6-12 knots on Saturday. On Sunday, the breeze moved to almost
due north, 10-15 knots, and blew off the land a bit more. The puffy, shifty
conditions kept folks on their toes. No lead was secure.

Saturday's races were dominated by Ali Meller and Curtis Hartmann with Barney
Harris and Jesse Falsone pushing them hard in three of the four races. Nick
Nelson kept his dad, Macy, in the hunt with good spinnaker and trapeze work.
More than one of the top boats found themselves slam tacking Team Nelson in the
latter stages of a race! Tom Price showed the fleet that he's starting to
figure out 505s. He led at the first mark in race four. Fleet Captain Allen
Freedman sailed with Jonathan Phillips and experienced the thrill of crewing on
a bag boat. As always, the Bretons proved especially dangerous when the breeze
lightened.

After a traditional German dinner (with several dishes I can't spell), the
competitors discussed proper capsize recovery--one of this month's hot topics
on the email server list.

Seven boats braved the colder and wetter conditions on Sunday. Ali Meller and
Curtis Hartmann started off where they left off winning the first race,
although things got a bit interesting as Jonathan Phillips (with Les Crane) and
the Bretons made up alot of distance on the final run. It's always fun to see
Ali thrash around in the boat when it gets tight.:-)

For race six, Ali and Tom Price switched boats. For the second time in the
regatta, Tom held a small lead at the first mark. Phillips and Crane took the
lead on the second reach and, after fighting off Barney Harris and Jesse
Falsone, won the race. Macy Nelson and Allen Freedman finished third. The final
race had five boats rounding the leeward mark overlapped!

The Pumpkin Patch was a terrific event this year. The races were well run and
the teams well fed. Typically, this regatta is the final event for the year at
West River Sailing Club, but Fleet 19 has at least two more activities planned
for 1997. Ali Meller will lead a training seminar on November 1 designed to
help the middle of the fleet sailors. A tuning session is also planned for the
weekend after Thanksgiving.


