Open Meeting
Queen Mary
19-20 April 1997
Report: Frank Rainsborough

17 competitors enjoyed the racing in a gusty North Easterly but nevertheless
useful F3-4 wind for the five race contest on the weekend of 19/20th April.
Race officer Brian Humphrey had set an interesting course comprising a beat and
then three reaches.

Last years winners of this event, Rob Napier and Kimball Morrison in 8429,
signalled their intentions by winning the first race followed by S. Adams and
A. Wood in 8381 who in turn were being chased by other previous winners of this
event, David Smithwhite and Rob Sutherland in 8555.

Race two followed immediately and was led by Paul Lovesy and Andy Williams in
8592 but Lovsey was harried all the way round by Adams, Smithwhite and Napier.
At the finish it was Adams first, followed by Napier, then Lovesey, Smithwhite
and then in their highest place in this event, Vic Stopp and Julian Pearson in
8525.

On Sunday the wind maintained it's strength and direction, enabling the
overnight leader, Napier, to win the first of the two traditional Olympic
courses that were set as back to backs for Sunday morning, with Lovesy winning
the fourth race. In both of these races the boats of Smithwhite and Adams were
always in contention and in the first of Sunday's races, race 3, Anne
Cave-Penny helming 8591 with crew Richard Cave-Penny, acheived their best event
position of a 5th.

After lunch it was back to the 'two-gybes, three-reaches' course, with second,
third and fourth places all up for grabs. Smithwhite went out and dominated
this race, wanting to put as many boats between himself and Adams, in his
attempt to secure second place overall, but it was not to be, as he could not
shake off Adams who finished second. Cruising home in third place was Napier
ensuring his winning of the event, but by a slimish margin because of the very
close racing, and, as shown by the fact that between first and third in the
event, there was a spread of only three points. In fourth place in the fifth
race , in the highest home club position, and in their personal event best
position was the team of James Baxter and Phillip Baxter in 8490.


