http://www.intersail.co.uk/505/1997/nationals.html

TR Fastenings National Championship 1997

Brighton Marina YC 19-25th July 1997

Report

A colourful venue, nine race series, a choice of five different courses,
the option of gate or line starts and on the last day the most
exhilirating 'Race of the Year' in recent memory, made the T.R.
Fastenings 505 Nationals held at Brighton on the 19th to the 25th of
July one to be remembered.

Brighton Marina Yacht Club were hosts to their first major
championships, and under the guidance of Race officer Paul Gardner and
Kay coped with the new course formats.

Championship favorites Ian Pinnell and Mark Darling showed their intent
by winning the first race. Unfortunately, a 22nd in the second and a PMS
in Race 5 made life difficult. Fortunately for them there were two
discards to the series.

Meanwhile, the young team of Richard Tew and Simon Hiscocks, although
finishing 1Oth in the first race, were slotting in seconds and a third,
leading the regatta by the half way stage.

Although these two boats were showing an edge on the rest of the fleet,
they by no means had it all their own way. Dave Peacock crewed by MarK
Upton-Brown, showed that it is possible to sail with two helms in the
boat to win Race 2.

Gordon McCeorge and Graeme Russell kept the Scottish flag flying by
winning Race 3.

The class has been under pressure to reintroduce line starts as opposed
to using gate starts all Of the time. The argument being that the former
are more exciting and a skill in their own right.

Unfortunately, they are a skill that most 505 sailors have forgotten, as
was proven in Race 5 when it was introduced. The fleet got away at the
sixth attempt with a quarter taking an early bath, being black flagged
in the previous attempts to start the race. Jan Suagman and Morken
Ramsback from Denmark were the early leaders, but Debbie Jarvis and Nick
Powell took the winning gun.

No wind on Wednesday meant a trip to the fun fair an Brighton Pier and
three races to be scheduled for Thursday.

After an hour postponement the fleet set sail with the promise of breeze
building from the South west. The first race was started in marginal
trapezing conditions building towards the end, Hector Cisneros and
Lawrence Crispin won. On the championship front Pinnell scored a useful
third with Tew sixth.

The early leaders in Race 7 were Phillippe Boite from Paris crewed by
Bill Masterman from outside London. as Bill explained - 'when we are in
control everything is fine and we can understand each other. When we are
out of control or under pressure then there can be a breakdown in
communication. It does not help that the French word for 'gybe' sounds
like 'tack''!

Reigning World Champion Paul Towers and Dan Johnson won with Boite
second.

Ex-World Champion Ian Barker crewed by Paul Young won Race 8 held in
15-20 knots. Again Boite was second.

The championship was to be decided on the last day with the 'Race of the
Year', which is traditionally one lap longer and held on the old type
Olympic Course but this year with the run first.

Pinnell was leading with 18 points, Tew with 23 and then Boite with 28.

The conditions were ideal with the race starting in 15 knots from the
South West, and building to 20 kicking up steep waves. This meant for
a wet race upwind followed by a roller coaster down. The fast technique
on the run is to keep the crew on the trapeze and reach acrooss the wave
fronts, tearing out to one side of the course, gybing and reaching back
again.

The early leader was Boite, after two laps it was Towers, after four it
was Barker. At the finish it was Barker, Tew then Boite.

Had Richard Tew and Simon Hiscocks done enough ? Ian Pinnell and Mark
Darling came in sixth to win their second National Championships by two
points.
