https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/297840/2026-505-Worlds-at-Hayling-Island-Day-3
2026 505 World Championship at Hayling Island Sailing Club - Day 3
by Chris Thorne 9 Jul 11:36 BST
6-11 July 2026

Germans turn up the heat

Like the previous few days of the 505 World Championships, sponsored by
WIP, Ovington Boats and Allen, Wednesday dawned bright and sunny but
even warmer. However, the breeze was significantly lighter which led to
the fleet being held ashore until the Race Committee was satisfied that
there was sufficient wind across the course area in Hayling Bay to get
racing under way.

Eventually the wind filled in to a steady 7-8 knots from the south, and
Race 5 started, with the fleet crossing behind the Pathfinder, AUS 8801
sailed by 2024 World Champions Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne. The beat
was even, first favouring the left and then the right-hand side. First
at the top mark was GER 9251, piloted by current Championship leaders,
Jan-Philipp Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff, ahead of the USA team of
Brian Haines / Ted Conrads and GBR 8935, Craig Burlton and Richard
Anderton. Picking the shifts and timing the gybe points in the steadily
increasing wind was also the key to success down the run. This was well
demonstrated by the USA team of Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn, who moved up
five places to round the leeward gate in third place behind
Hofmann/Brockerhoff and Burlton/Anderton.

In view of the increasing wind, now up to 10 -12 knots, the second beat
was increased to 1.3 nautical miles. By the end of the leg the German
boat still led the fleet, but Hamlin/Zinn had just got past Burlton and
Anderton. Although at one stage it looked as though the American pair
might have got through to the lead, Hofmann/Brockerhoff were able to
hold on to take the gun.


By the start of Race 6, across the course the wind was shifting between
195 and 210 degrees in direction, the speed between 10 -12 knots and the
tidal current flowing mainly north, giving the racers plenty of
decisions to make up the 1.5 nm first leg. The GBR team of Ian Pinnell
and Robert Woelfel got the race under way as Pathfinder. The GBR team of
Roger Gilbert and Ian Mitchell started close to the middle of the gate
and picked their shifts well to round the windward mark, neck and neck
with Hamlin/Zinn and the ever-present Hofmann/Brockerhoff. The British
duo continued their dual with Hamlin and Zinn down the run exchanging
gybe for gybe, just edging ahead of the Americans by little more than
a boat length at the leeward gate, with the German duo not far behind.
As this leading group was setting the pace upwind, the wind had backed
towards the south, so to keep the final downwind leg as square as
possible the Race Officer, moved the finish line about 300m to the west.


Once again, the leaders matched one another gybe for gybe to cover their
positions but by the finish Gilbert and Mitchell had held their lead,
closely followed by Hofmann/Brockerhoff and Hamlin/Zinn. In spite of the
close attention these three boats had to pay to each other as they vied
for the lead over the second half of the race they had opened up
a significant gap on the rest of the fleet, with almost 2 mins between
Hamlin/Zinn and the forth placed boat.

Thursday 9 July is a lay day, allowing the fleet time to recuperate or
fix any issues with their boats before battle resumes with Races 7 and
8 scheduled for Friday. With Jan-Philipp Hofmann and Felix Brokerhoff
now enjoying a clear lead just past the halfway point, is this the year
the multiple German National Championship winners win their first World
Championships to add to their previous bronze and silver positions?

--------------------------------------

https://www.sailweb.co.uk/2026/07/09/505-class-world-championship-2026-lay-day-before-the-final-push/

505 Class World Championship 2026 – Lay Day before the final push
Gerald New

The 90 strong 505 World Championship fleet are taking a well deserved
Lay Day at Hayling Island SC before the final two days with four races
scheduled.

Jan-Philipp Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff of Germany (Image) are top of
the leaderboard after six races with 10 pts.

Second are Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn of the USA with 21 pts but have
a 56 point discard, so although they still have the chance to displace
Hofmann and Brockerhoff, they have no room for mistakes.

In third are Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne of Australia with 29 pts and
they also have a big discard of 41 pts.

Really the title is for Hofmann and Brockerhoff to loose, but to date
they have not shown any sign of a wobble, with a consistent set of
results -4 2 1 4 1 2 and a handy 4 point discard.

But this is sailing and many factors can upset the best laid plans . . .

--------------------------------------

https://www.sailweb.co.uk/2026/07/11/505-class-world-championship-hofmann-and-brockerhoff-are-2026-champions/

505 Class World Championship – Hofmann and Brockerhoff are 2026 Champions
Gerald New
9 hours ago
505 Worlds GER9251
Jan-Philipp Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff of Germany are the 2026 505 World Champions.

Hofmann and Brockerhoff won the World title with with a day and two
races still to go, something that the IOC frowns apon as not providing
enough Jeopardy on the final day, so just as well that they have no
involvement in real-world sailing.

This was the German pairs first 505 World title, having been runners up
in the last two European Championships and the 2024 World Championship.
And achieved in some style . . . a 4 2 1 4 1 2 2 1 scoreline allowing
them the discard the two final day races. The event also used their
traditional  ‘gate-starts’ allowing 90 boats to start on the one line.

With Hofmann and Brockerhoff absent, the battle was between USA and GBR
crews for the other podium places.

Britain’s Paul Brotherton and James Fawcett won the first race of the
final day, with Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn of the USA finishing fourth
and maintaining their second place overall by just 2 pts. Peter Nicholas
and Luke Payne of Australia had a 13th to remain in 4th place.

So, then all down to the final race (race 10) with initially Brotherton
and Fawcett finishing ahead of Hamlin and Zinn and seeming to have taken
the second podium place.

But a protest by Hamlin and Zinn (USA 9262) regarding a Port Starboard
incident with Brotherton and Fawcett (GBR 9274) in the pre-start of R10,
found that . . . ‘GBR 9274 on port failed to keep clear of USA 9262 on
starboard and broke RRS10, and GBR 9274 was DSQ in R10’.

This placed Hamlin and Zinn back into second overall with a five point
advantage over Brotherton and Fawcett in third overall.

Nicholas and Payne were fourth, and AJ Conrads and Jon Bell of the USA,
moved up into fifth after winning the final race.

