European Cup Riva del Garda 1998

How to begin? Words fail me… This was the most incredible event I have ever
sailed, in 27 years of sailing and racing (21 in 505s). The north end of Lake
Garda has to be one of the most beautiful places on earth, while short tacking
up the cliffs in 25 knots is - words fail me - incredible!

This year's entry was down to a mere 40 or so 505s, still the largest fleet,
with I 14s, Korsairs and Dyas making up the rest of the fleet. The Korsairs and
Dyas were almost all German, with - I think - an Austrian boat thrown in to
make it International. The 14s were mostly British, with a few Swiss boats and
a converted One Design 14 sporting "USA" on its sails. The 505 fleet was mostly
German, with some Swiss, some Scandinavian and some British teams, and of
course yours truly in USA 7200 - Un Canadien Errant/Time is on My Side - with
Jens Wilke on the wire. I don't believe there were any Italians sailing in any
of the classes.

Given that everyone in the 505 and 14 fleets (along with a few hundred
boardsailors) are all trying to sail in the same part of the lake right
underneath the Western cliffs, I have no idea how this event works when the
505s get their typical 55 boat turnout. It was crowded enough with 40!
Fortunately the Dyas and Korsairs sailed a different course, and when the
fleets did meet, were going in different directions.

Lake Garda is narrow and long, running south to north, in northern Italy. The
south end of the lake is wider, and opens onto a broad plain. The north end of
the lake is much narrower and is deep into the mountains, with steep cliffs on
both sides, particularly on the west side.

During the night and early morning a north-to-south breeze blows on the lake.
Though this is sometimes used for racing, most prefer to party late, and race
in the afternoon "Ora", the southern wind that fills in around 11:30 on a
typical day (and sunny day). The Ora is thermal and driven by the heat on the
plains at the southern end of the lake. It is strongest right under the western
cliffs, which may also bend the breeze slightly.

The cliffs are over 300 meters high and the lake is over 300 meters deep. The
marks are permanently fixed, as the Ora blows from more or less the same
direction each day.

Line starts were used, with shifts favoring either end of the line. Though you
want to go right to the cliffs, you do not want to go in immediately from the
starboard end of the line, as that gets you into the "Bay of Pigs", which has
lighter air. The game is to figure out which end of the line gets you ahead by
enough that you can lead the fleet right to the correct point on the cliffs. I
did not figure this out on this trip, but look forward to returning to Garda
many times to work this out.

The courses sounded reasonable, with the short course of beat, reach, reach,
beat, reach, reach, tight reach to finish, and the long course of beat, reach,
reach, beat, run, beat, reach, reach, tight reach to finish not that different
from what we normally sail, however…… The first reach is a not very tight reach
across the lake (so the 14s could fly kites most of the time). There are three
basic options for the leg.

Sail the rhumb line to the gybe mark

Sail high, get to the east side of the lake and hope for a little more breeze
next to the eastern cliffs, gybe and reach back to the gybe mark Gybe at the
windward mark, sail away from the reach mark until back in the breeze under the
western cliffs, sail as far down in the breeze as you dare, then gybe back and
sail a really tight angle to the gybe mark.

We chose rhumb line and were sometimes passed on a reach by boats using both
the other options!

The second reach is cool too! Sometime you gybe at the mark, and head high for
the western cliffs, sailing 30 degrees above the leeward mark. As you get into
the breeze near the western cliffs, you have to keep bearing off, and soon find
yourself unable to make the leeward mark with the kite up.. dousing early and
two sailing to the leeward mark. On the other hand, sometimes its not windy
enough under the western cliffs, and the fast move is to not gybe at the mark,
continue on starboard near the eastern cliffs, and then gybe late and sail a
hot angle back to the western side.

The good guys had this all figured out, and had the boat speed and boat
handling to pull it off. We did not. We had occasional bursts of warp speed
when we could gain a boatlength in a couple of seconds, but could not
effectively depower enough to stay consistently fast like the top Euros. In the
penultimate race in 20-25 knots, we finanlly got a clear air start and managed
to find lanes into the cliff, and were rewarded with a 4th place at the
windward mark, ahead of both Upton-Brown/Mitchell and Schonherr/Bosjen-Moller.
Being too conservative - sailing the rhumb line - and a less than stellar gybe
ended our hold on 4th rather quickly, while a couple more minor mistakes later
in the race dropped us to 9th, our best finish. What a blast! Incredible! When
can we go back!

Stefan Boehm and Gerald Roos from Germany really should have won the event,
winning three races, however they and a number of competitors neglected to
check the course flag before the second start, and raced the wrong course and
were DSQ'd from the second race. A later Spiro fitting failure resulted in them
having to count a DNF. 1997 World Champions Mark Upton-Brown/Ian Mitchell
rarely led at the first mark, but were able to pull through into the top places
in each race. 1990 World Champion Jurgen Schonherr, sailing with Jacob
Bosjen-Moller were also fast and consistently smart, but were one of the teams
DSQ'd for sailing the wrong course in the second race.

The magic of Riva del Garda is much more than the racing. After reliving the
highlights of the day's racing while getting the boats ashore - quite an
adventure with the one slippery ramp facing the strength of the Ora -
competitors would rest, clean up, get something to eat, and prepare for the
evening. Evening didn't really start until about 10:00PM, when one would roll
into the Café d'Italia for a couple of coffees (expresso), aiming for an
11:00-11:30 arrival at the sailor's pub. That's not the official name, but
everyone calls it the sailor's pub, and about 95% of the regatta could be found
in the small pub and overflowing into the small street outside any evening
during the event. Its hard to keep a large number of happy, drunk sailors
quiet, but the bartenders tried hard. No singing!

Another evening competitors had dinner on the outdoor terrace at the sailing
club, the Fraglia della Vela Riva del Garda, along with lots of wine. The next
morning I had vague recollections of making a speech in Italian the previous
evening, using the club PA system, but have no idea what I said, except that a
number of smiling Italians were shaking my hand and thanking me afterwards. It
was the club's 70th anniversary, which we all toasted with an excellent Italian
red wine.

The sailor's pub is in a residential area (people live in the upper levels all
over Riva), so the neighbors may not have been impressed with the sailors. Dire
threats from the bartenders of kicking people out of the pub kept the group
quiet until the final evening when the neighbours must have lost their
remaining patience; both the local police and the Carabinieri arrived shutting
down activities (I missed this, as Lauren had arrived that afternoon, and we
had left early). The next morning the happy, tired, smiling and hung-over
sailors considered the police intervention to be the "icing on the cake" of a
very successful week at Garda.

Lauren and I are already making plans to be back in Europe for the Garda event
next year.

-Ali
