French National Championships 1996
Loctudy, France
11th-14th July 1996

Fine weather greeted 67 boats which made the arduous journey through Brittany
to Loctudy for the French National Championships from 11-14 July.

Winds were light and variable throughout the regatta, blowing offshore for four
of the five races sailed. This meant big shifts and different wind strengths
across the 1.8 mile windward Leg. After the first couple of races it appeared
that consistency was going to be order of the day and few could have imagined
that after five races anyone would have 3 firsts a third and be discarding a
sixth. However this was Philippe Boite's impressive score, and with a lack of
wind causing the cancellation of the sixth and final race, his total of 5.7
points (Olympic Scoring) put him well clear of the rest of the field.
Philippe's brother Alain made it a Boite clean sweep taking second place
overall after four top six placings.

Race one started in a light offshore breeze and was led by Rimbert and Rimbert
from France. However as the wind increased on the final windward leg to the
finish he dropped to fifth allowing Philippe Boite and J Muzellec to win from
Hector Cisneros and Lawrence Crispin (GBR) who had made steady progress after
returning for a premature start, with Marcel Buffet and D Trouilet proving
that age means nothing in Five-O's in third. Race two was again sailed in a
light and shifty 5-12 knot breeze and this time it was the French pairing of
Gilbert Vinches and Pierre Gallo who took the line honours from cedric Bart and
Jean Senn of Switzerland with Eric Petit and Richard Leferve(FRA) in third.

Conditions had not changed for Race Four and with many boats getting caught out
by the effects of a strong tide and a dying breeze on the second reach, the
leading boats opened up a big gap on the bunch. The final beat became very
close at the front as Alain Boite tried, successfully, to cover tghe three
boats astern. Alain won from Vinches and Gallo with brother Philippe in third.

The Race Officer postponed Race Five and wiated patiently for the 'sea breeze'
to roll in. His patience ran out and he got the fleet away from the line-start
at the first attept in a fickle 5-8 knot breeze. Five minutes into the race,
the sea breeze came in for the first all week lifting the boats on the left
hand side up to the top mark and leaving the rest becalmed. Once Philippe Boite
had rounded the top mark in first place, the rest of the race was something of
a procession as the course remained unchanged for the duration of the race.
Philippe won from Bart & Senn with Petit & Lefevre third.

This excellent venue allowed for big courses to be set which together with the
easy launching and facilities onshore more than made up for the lack of wind.
