https://www.int505.org/blog/2024/08/18/2024worldspress-release/

International 5o5 World Championships. Varberg Sweden. Final Wrap

The 2024 running of the 505 World Championships was held August 3rd
through the 10th in Varberg, Sweden. 96 boats competed from 13 different
countries and 4 Continents. The highly competitive fleet included
9 previous World Champions, amateur and professional, young and old and
many National Champions from around the World. The racing was held on
the waters of the Baltic, North West of the hosting Varberg’s
Segelsällskap.

As usual, before the World Championships, the Pre Worlds and in this
case the Open Nordic Championship was held over 2 days.  The event is
always a warm up for the visiting boats and a chance for the Race Team
to hone their skills. Light winds were the norm for the Pre Worlds,
generally from the Southwest, with long, warm sunny days. One team was
clearly head and shoulders above everyone else in these conditions, the
German team of Jan Philip Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff ran away with
the event, counting all firsts, dropping a 2nd in the last race. A very
impressive achievement in super tough conditions. Taking second behind
them was the Australian father and son team of Malcom and Angus Higgins.
Sailing super consistently they dropped a 4th place. Rounding out the
podium were US team Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel.

The practice over and the measurement done, it was now down to the main
event for all the teams. Day one was not looking promising, light winds,
warm sunshine were the forecast and so it proved. The first race getting
away in very light and shifty conditions. First at the windward mark and
pulling away from the fleet in their very first World Championship race
were the Swedish team of Peter Bökmark and Martin Persson. Behind them
Pre Worlds winners, Jan Philip Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff pulled
through to take 2nd and Swiss husband and wife team of Caroline and
Philip Jacot took 3rd. Meanwhile many of the pre regatta favorites were
racking up some big scores. The second race of the day got away in
slightly more, albeit very light and shifty conditions. Making the most
of them this time was the GBR/USA combo of Nathan Batchelor and Eric
Anderson, essentially leading from start to finish, with the German team
of Jan Philip Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff scoring another 2nd to have
the overall lead.  Following the racing the club supplied hungry and
thirsty sailors with food and beer and the now traditional debrief of
the winners was held. Attending a 5o5 World Championship, renown for
‘there being no secrets’ is a unique opportunity for newer teams to
learn from the very best. The post race debriefs are very popular and
allow for sharing of set up, boat handling and tactics.

Day 2 and we were greeted with even less wind and wisely the AP flag.
Sadly the wind never built to a reachable level and the day was spent
waiting and looking around the dinghy park to see what was making the
fast boats go so fast!

By Day 3 the weather had shifted to cooler conditions and finally some
wind. The fleet set out into a decent Southerly, running around the
12-16 knot range. Race started with a 2 lap windward leeward course with
a long 1.5 mile beat. The change of conditions significantly shuffled
the pack and brought new teams to the fore. Leading at the top mark was
the Australian team of Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne. They were being
chased hard by Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel from the US and GBR team, Ian
Pinnell and Charles Dwyer. These 3 extended from the fleet and finished
in that order. Race 4 started in similar conditions and the Aussies
Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne again led at the first mark, this time
chased by Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn from the US and again Mike Holt and
Rob Woelfel. The three had a race long battle and entered the final mark
all overlapped, with the Aussies coming out on top, just, from Mike Holt
and Rob Woelfel and then Hamlin and Zinn. A couple of second separating
all three. For the third race of the day and the 5th of the event the
wind had dropped slightly to the 10-12 knot range. This time Hamlin and
Zinn were in charge at the top mark with French team of Philippe Boat
and Marcin Carnot close behind. With the wind starting to trend right
the race opened up but Hamlin and Zinn held off the hard chasing Holt
and Woelfel to win. Holt and Woelfel took second and a 3rd US team, Mike
Martin and Adam Lowry from the USA took 3rd.

With 5 races down and a first discard in place the leaderboard had
shuffled some. Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne had jumped to the top,
Jan-Phillip Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff had slipped to 2nd and
following good day, Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn had moved up to 3rd.
Several other teams had also jumped up the leaderboard and were looking
forward to getting to nine races and drop 2.

Sadly though the weather had other ideas and with a day lost to no wind
already, two more days were lost when the breeze became more than the
race team were prepared to send the fleet out in and, in somewhat
anticlimactic scenes, the winners of the 2024 505 World Championships
were the Australian team of Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne. Their
consistent performance over the 5 races certainly merited the win, as
had their consistent performances over the last 15 years in the class.
Their win was the first for an Australian team in 22 years, oddly the
same year that their boat was built, making the win by far the oldest
winning boat of a 505 World Championships. Pete and Luke, despite
campaigning regularly in the 5o5, are both professionals sailors. Luke
Payne’s comment at the presentation that racing the 5o5 and the skills
acquired, has been the cornerstone of their ability to race
professionally at the top, including Americas Cup and Sail GP, is
a testament to the success of the Class which this year had its 70th
anniversary.

---------------------------

https://www.sailweb.co.uk/2024/08/10/aussi-pair-nicholas-and-payne-are-2024-505-world-champions/

Aussie pair Nicholas and Payne are 2024 505 World Champions

The weather was once again not what the sailors would have liked.

So the decision came – no more sailing and thus the results from
Wednesday became the 2024 International 505 World Championship results.

It was tight between the top three after five races with Australians
Peter Nicholas and Luke Payne taking the title with 13 pts.

Second were the German team of Jan-Philipp Hofmann and Felix Brockerhoff
on 14 pts and third Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn of the USA with 15 pts.

Among the first ten teams there were four from Britain, three from the
USA and one each from Australia, Germany and France.

Best mixed team was Caroline and Philippe Jacot from Switzerland among
17 mixed teams.

Best female team, and also best junior team Maike Roos and Julia
Achterberg of Germany.

---------------------------

https://sailing-news.com/news/de/permanent/59811/5o5-world-championship-2024-varberg-swe-day-5.html

5o5 - World Championship 2024 - Varberg SWE - Day 5

Offenbar keine weiteren Wettfahrten gestern in Varberg. Vor dem heutigen
Schlusstag führen Peter Nicholas/Luke Payne AUS mit einem Punkt
Vorsprung auf Jan-Phlipp Hofmann/Felix Brockerhoff GER, einen weiteren
Punkt dahinter folgen Howie Hamlin/Andy Zinn USA. Caroline und Philippe
Jacot SUI sind ausgezeichnete 15. der 95 Teams. Die Rangliste und die
Event-Facebook-Seite.

---------------------------

https://www.batliv.se/2024/08/13/505-vm-i-varberg-vanns-av-peter-nicholas-och-luke-payne/

13 augusti, 2024
505-VM i Varberg vanns av Peter Nicholas och Luke Payne

505-VM är det enda seglings-VM som avgörs i Sverige i år. Seglingarna
avslutades i helgen och var ett mycket lyckat arrangemang, bortsett från
vädret.

Pressrelease från Svenska 505-förbundet:

Två seglingsdagar på för-VM och två på VM var allt som kunde genomföras.
Sex seglingar på för-VM och fem på VM. Få seglingar var förstås en
besvikelse, inte minst för de som rest riktigt långt och det var många.
17 team från USA, AUS och RSA var på plats. Totalt var det 95 startande
från 13 nationer, varav 17 mixed team och två dambesättningar.

De två seglingsdagarna på VM var helt olika, en med lätt vind och en med
medel/hårdvind. Det var delvis olika personer i toppen beroende på vind.
I den lättare vinden hävdade sig t.ex. svenskarna fantastiskt väl, men
när det blev hårdare vind var svenskarna inte riktigt i toppen. Här
finns mer kvar att lära. Stämningen i klassen är dock mycket öppen och
alla delar med sig av trim, teknik mm, Mike Holt, en av de
hårdvindsälskande amerikanerna hade en lång diskussion om hårdvindstrim
med flera svenska team efteråt.

Australiensarna Peter Nicholas (även svensk medborgare, gift med en
svenska) och hans bästa kompis Luke Payne blev världsmästare. De var
1 poäng före tvåan, Jan-Philipp Hoffmann/Felix Brockerhoff, Tyskland,
som vann för-VM. På tredje plats kom Howie Hamlin/Andy Zinn, USA.

Det ganska nykomponerade teamet Carl-Fredrik Fock/Johan Barne blev bästa
svenskar på plats 19. MEN första seglingen vanns av svenska teamet Peter
Bökmark/Martin Persson – överlägset. De var helt enkelt snabbast och
seglade mest rätt. Så kul! Totalt slutade de på 22a plats och var tvåa
bland svenskarna.

På platserna 25 till 33 var det gott om svenskar, hela fem team.

Sjutton mixed-team deltog. Caroline och Philippe Jacot från Schweiz vann
bland dessa, före Malin Broberg/Johan Röök, Sverige. I totalen var de
15:e resp. 27:e båt.

Det var mycket känslor och stor lycka. Nicholas/Payne var nära att vinna
redan 2014, då var det fight in på mållinjen i sista seglingen. Detta
var deras första VM-seger i 505.

De vann med en båt som är cirka 20 år gammal, före alla helt nya båtar,
vilket var en extra triumf. Fivarna har i 30 år byggts i kolfiber/epoxi.
Gamla båtar är därför lika styva som nya – det hänger på seglarna.

Varbergs SS gjorde ett mycket bra jobb, både på land och på vattnet.
Engagerat och gästvänligt var några av de ord som oftast hördes från
deltagarna.

Filmer, både från tävlingsdagarna och sammanfattningar finns på
https://www.youtube.com/@VarbergsSegelsallskap

Hela resultatlistan finns här:
https://www.varbergssegelsallskap.se/505-worlds-varberg-2024/results

Nästa VM i 505 går i Adelaide, Australien, i början av januari 2025.
Nicholas/Payne är då på plats för att försvara sin title
