505 North American Championship Results

Kingston, Ontario, Canada

August 8, 1996

NOTE: Canadian Championship was cancelled due to lack of wind, and will run
concurrently with the North American Championship.

After a day of practice and two days of racing, the Long Beach team of Howard
Hamlin (2nd at the 1996 505 World Championship) and Mike Martin (5th at the '96
World Championship) have opened up a lead in the 34 team International 505
North American Championship. With finishes of 1,2,1,3, the Hamlin/Martin team
are in a strong position to win the 1996 event.

Behind Hamlin/Martin, the other top teams remain very close. Tyler Moore (5th
at the '95 Worlds) of Hyannis Cape Cod and Scott Ikle of upstate New York won
the 4th race and pulled themselves into 2nd overall - with finishes of 2,4,6,1,
two points ahead of Ali Meller and Allan Johnson (8,1,4,4) of the Washington DC
area. Jeff Boyd and Martin tenHove of Kingston are very close behind, with
5,7,3,2, only one point ahead of Neal Fowler/Dave Dyson from New England, with
their 3,3,10,5, and five points ahead of Mike Zani/Peter Alarie of New England
(4,8,5,6). Defending North American champion Robin Brown of Vancouver - sailing
this event with Bruce Edwards of Santa Cruz - has 19 points, with finishes of
7,5,7,7.

Other current placings of note are recent recruits Tim Collins/Smith with
(9,11,13,21), team New Zealand (Paul Heads/Chris Ryan) with (1,16,17,12),
newcomers Chris Musler/Alex Ross, sailing 6311, a twenty year old Parker-hulled
Lindsay with (29,18,18, DNF), a Zimbabwen 505 (Wyles/Seguin) with finishes of
30,33,28,35, and two Texas 505s - part of the new Texas fleet - with
Tapley/Arnold's 35,30,19,16 putting them 3 points ahead of MacKay/Treadwell's
19,27,22,35. Past Olympian Shona Moss Loveshin, with husband Steve crewing, has
finishes of 35,21,12,13. There are six women competing, five as skippers (there
is an all female team). Three of the teams are wife and husbands; one team is a
father and son. Fifteen of the competitors are new to the 505 class within the
last year.

With three more races scheduled, Hamlin/Martin need to continue their strong
finishes to win, while at least 7 teams have a real shot at a top 3 finish.

Conditions August 7th for the first two races were moderate, while the two
races sailed on August 8th were in a fresher breeze that reached over 26 knots,
with some stronger puffs.

August 9, 1996

Howard Hamlin and Mike Martin won both races today, clinching the 1996
International 505 North American Championship a day early. With finishes of
1,2,1,3,1,1, they could throw out a DNS in the last race and still win easily.
This is the third time Howard Hamlin has won the 505 North Americans, and
follows on his second place finish at the 1996 505 World Championship, held in
Townsville Australia.

Behind Hamlin and Martin the battle for the remaining places is very close.
Tyler Moore (5th at the '95 Worlds) of Hyannis Cape Cod and Scott Ikle of
upstate New York scored a 5,2 today, and are two points ahead of Ali Meller and
Allan Johnson who were 2nd and 5th. Moore/Ikle have clinched either a second or
a third overall, as only Meller/Johnson can catch them, while both the Neal
Fowler/Dave Dyson, and Jeff Boyd/Martin tenHove teams can catch Meller/Johnson
for 3rd. The Mike Zani/Peter Alarie team are still within range of 4th, while
defending North American Champion Robin Brown and crew Bruce Edwards can still
catch Zani/Alarie and Boyd/tenHove for 5th.

Racing has been close, with places changing all the way around the race course
and on the finish line, where races have been decided by a couple of feet,
after racing an entire 505 worlds course (old Olympic with two more reaches and
a final beat)

The first race started in a light breeze, but wind increased for the start of
the second, and built during the race with some of the Kingston thermal breeze,
so that the 505s were planing upwind easily, and surfing down waves on the
runs. The Race Committee continues to set excellent courses with tight reaches,
putting a premium on reaching technique and boat handling. There is a lot of
weed in the water, both clumps and single strands, so weed clearing techniques
were a hot topic of conversation after racing. Another evening highlight was
watching a video of the 1979 505 North American Championship (held in Toronto).
Many of the people in the video are still racing 505s, and two of the boats
seen in the video - 6311 and 6910 - are racing in this North American
Championship, seventeen years later.

August 10 1996

Howard Hamlin and Mike Martin did not compete in today's seventh and final
race, as they had clinched the North American Championship yesterday. The
remaining positions were up for grabs in today's final race.

Unlike earlier races, the seventh was in a light, very shifty northerly. The RC
postponed on the water, started at least one sequence and postponed before the
start, got of a start, but abandoned the race as the rabbit sailed into a hole,
while the earlier gaters were in a puff and a 40 degree shift, and then as the
opportunity to get a race of at all started to dwindle, managed to get a race
started. Wind strengths ranged from flat out planing to almost nothing, and
huge shifts were apparent throughout the race. Positions changed around the
race course as first one team, then another profited from puffs and shifts.
Neal Fowler/Dave Dyson fought there way into second part way through the race,
and that position combined with Meller/Johnson sailing their throwout - they
were almost last at the first windward mark - would have given them third place
overall. Meanwhile Tyler Moore and Scott Ikle were consolidating their hold on
second overall by leading the race. A final puff from the right - and a big
veer - dropped Fowler/Dyson to 5th, leaving them in 4th overall. When the dust
had settled, none of the top 10 positions had changed, though some final scores
were very close.

Howard Hamlin and Mike Martin won easily, frequently having enough of a boat
speed edge to lead at the first mark and pull away during the race. They
started in the middle of the gate frequently, probably to avoid being on the
wrong side of a shift. Their finishes were 1,2,1,3,1,1,DNS. This is the third
time Howard Hamlin has won the 505 North Americans, and follows on his second
place finish at the 1996 505 World Championship, held in Townsville Australia,
with Cam Lewis crewing. Mike Martin was 5th at the recent World Championship,
with Jeff Miller substituting for his normal driver, Pete Melvin. Hamlin and
Martin frequently race together.

There were 34 teams from Quebec, Ontario, Alberta, British Columbia, Washington
state, California, Illinois, Ohio, Texas, Massachussets, Connecticut, Rhode
Island, Maryland, Virgina, Florida, Zimbabwe and New Zealand competing.

Both the North American Championship, and the attempted Canadian Championship
in Ottawa, were terrific events that everyone enjoyed. Teams that had been
registered for the Canadians in Ottawa were scored for the Canadians as part of
the North American Championship races. Since most teams were at both events,
the finishes for both events were quite similar. A number of prizes were given
out, apart from the trophies for the top teams. Classic 505 awards were
presented to Chris Museler and Alex Ross, racing the oldest boat at the event,
6311. This 505 is about 20 years old and still going strong. Chris and Alex
were 20th! They were also the youngest combined age team at the event, being
only slightly older than the boat, at 22 and 21. The other classic 505 award
was given to the all female team of Carol Rose/Penny Estabrooks whose combined
ages are over 100 years.... Adam and Renka Gesing - who are leaving Kingston
for Windsor - were recognized for their long support of the Kingston fleet and
East Coast 505 Racing. We look forward to a stronger Detroit area 505 fleet.

Other placings of note were recent recruits Tim Collins/Bill Smith in 11th,
three time North American Champion Macy Nelson, with Mark Mendelblatt crewing
14th (counting a DNF), team New Zealand, Paul Heads/Chris Ryan - also new
recruits - 16th, newcomers Chris Museler/Alex Ross, sailing 6311 a twenty year
old Parker-hulled Lindsay, in 20th, a Zimbabwen 505 (Wyles/Seguin) in 32nd, and
two Texas 505s - part of the new Texas fleet - with MacKay/Treadwell's last two
races pulling them up into 25th overall, ahead of Tapley/Arnold's 29th. Past
Olympian Shona Moss Loveshin, with husband Steve crewing, finished 17th. There
were six women competing, five as skippers (there was an all female team).
Three of the teams were wife and husbands; one team was a father and son.
Fifteen of the competitors were new to the 505 class within the last year.

The 505s had excellent Race Committee work under the capable direction of Ross
Cameron, Director of CORK. Reaches were tight (60 degree gybe angle) with lots
of places being lost or gained at the hoists, planing down the leg, and at the
marks.

There was a lot of weed in the water, both clumps and single strands, so weed
clearing techniques were a hot topic of conversation during the evening social
activities. One evening highlight was watching a video of the 1979 505 North
American Championship (held in Toronto). Many of the people in the video are
still racing 505s (at least fourteen of the competitors in the '96 event had
also raced in the '79 event), and two of the boats seen in the video - 6311 and
6910 - were racing in this North American Championship, seventeen years later.


