505 WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP HELD IN BERMUDA 1975

Reprinted from DINGHY SAILING, December 1975

Hamilton, Bermuda

The United Kingdom's Dr. John Loveday apparently followed his own
prescription and emerged a convincing winner of the 5-0-5 World
Championships held Oct. 5-12 in Bermuda.

Competing against 69 other boats from 13 countries, Loveday defeated
several former 5-0-5 champions with finishes of 1-1-1-2-1-10 in the six
race, five to count, series. Second and third places went to Frenchmen
Jean-Marie Danielou and 53-year-old Marcel Buffet.

With temperatures, both of air and water, in the upper 70s and a cold
front bringing in winds from the north and east at velocities ranging
from 25 to six knots, the dinghy sailors had a variety of conditions in
which to compete, But heavy air, light air, a steep chop or gentle
wavelets, Loveday and crewman Lewis Dann mastered them all.

Loveday set the pace for the rest of the series in his first win.
Winning by three and a half minutes, he was never seriously challenged.
With fellow Englishman Larry Marks and Frenchman Danielou following him
across, Loveday said, he had eased off when he had a good lead to
minimize the risk of gear damage or capsizings in the steep, three or
four foot seas.

The start of the second race Tuesday afternoon was marked by two general
recalls. Sweden's lone representative, Karl Nilsson, got off to a good
start in lighter, 15 knot winds and led the fleet around the first
weather mark followed by two French boats, Levesque and Buffet. Loveday
rounded the mark in sixth place but had moved to within second place by
the first leeward mark passing Buffet on the second windward leg and
maintaining his lead until the end.


Winds lightened again on Wednesday but Loveday adjusted. After a less
than perfect start, he rounded the first weather mark in fifth place
behind Bill Pattison of the U.S. in first, Derek Farrant of the U.K.,
Buffet and Danielou. Loveday had moved up to third by the leeward mark
and had passed Pattison and Farrant by the second weather mark. Loveday
was seriously challenged on the final reach by Australia's Geoff Kyrwood
who had started the race far down in the pack, but surfed to within
striking distance of Loveday by the final leeward mark. Loveday
lengthened his lead on the beat and finished 40 seconds ahead of
Kyrwood.


Yves Pajot, last year's 5-0-5 champion, avenged his previous three
defeats on Thursday when he finished three seconds ahead of Lovedav. The
finish was all the more remarkable, however, considering that Loveday
was in 11th place after the first triangle, moved into sixth position on
the beat to weather and the flow, then passed the remaining boats on the
last triangle to place second, Loveday's best was yet to come, however.
With world class sailors competing, it seems almost inconceivable that
Loveday could finish five minutes ahead of his nearest rival, but he did
in race four. If the race had had another leg, spectators felt he would
have lapped the last place boats.


With an unbeatable total of only three points going into the last race,
Loveday could have relaxed on Shelly Bay beach, or in the Royal Bermuda
Yacht Club, but he chose to go out and race with the rest of them. With
the pressure off, he finished in 10th place. Second and third places
overall were still up for grabs among several sailors including Larry
Marks, Jon Andron of the U.S., the U.K.'s Peter Colclough as well as
Danielou and Buffet.


D. Zanks of the U.S. led the fleet up until the last half minute of the
race before being out-tacked by Danielou. Buffet's fifth place finish
was enough to give him third overall – both Frenchmen had
disqualifications to throw out.

France's Savelli was passed by six boats during this costly capsize at
the leeward mark  during the 5-0-5 World Championships held in
Bermuda.

