https://usa505.org/2026-elvestrom-zellerbach-at-stfyc/
2026 Elvestrom Zellerbach at StFYC
By Blaine PedlowJune 9, 2026


For the west coast sailors who paled at the 6000 mile journey to Garda
last weekend, StFYC delivered a standard 10-20 knots of shifty racing at
the 2026 Elvestrom Zellerbach regatta. Saturday was forecasted to be
full on but didn’t quite materialize, so instead the fleet sailed
3 races in 10 building to 18kts and a dying flood tide. Clean starts
+ balancing “go left for flood relief” with “don’t get stuck at the
beach with no wind” was the name of the game. The RC took a short nap
between races 1 and 2, so the 505’s organized a rabbit start + first
wdwd leg themselves. By the end of race 3 the breeze was steadily
topping 20, and the fleet headed in to enjoy some lasagna, beer, and
conversation.


Sunday was forecasted to be much lighter, but we turned the harbor
corner and were greeted with an immediate 12 knots that slowly built to
~18. The RC fired off 3 races, with Eric/Nic and Mike/Adam fighting for
the lead and Tim/Pat and Clark/Blaine duking it out for the last podium
spot. The course became slightly more open upwind and the breeze was
slightly more right, so playing the middle of the course worked nicely
on the upwind, especially towards the top where the left corner was
getting light and squirrely. After racing, the fleet packed up and then
enjoyed a taco buffet at awards.


A few personal takeaways:
– My permanent Crissy forecast is now 10-25 from 250-290.
– Tactics >> boatspeed for this regatta
– Tuning notes- on our new MEB main we are shroud cars back and ram down earlier- probably one click further on both throughout the 12+ range.
A couple callouts:
– Congrats Dave/Pete on your first 505 regatta; we’re excited to see you at more in the future!
– Great sailing Tim/Pat (and Tim/Aaron the weekend before in Santa Cruz)- they were podium contenders at both events, helped in part by Tim’s new boat. Ask Mike Martin about working for the Americas Cup and he’ll tell you he never did less sailing in his life, but apparently the same thing is not true for 505 class president.
– Thanks Clark/Blaine for making the trip down, it was great catching up and having you on the starting

