StFYC Fall Dinghy Report
Mike Holt
2013-11-11

Ted Conrads report:

This year’s Fall Dinghy hosted by St. Francis Yacht Club showcased 15
boats with teams traveling from the far reaches of the Northwest to Los
Angeles to compete on the classic racetrack framed by the Golden Gate
Bridge to the north and Alcatraz to the south.  The venue lived up to
its reputation with strong breeze and challenging conditions both days.
Saturday got off to a slow start as the sea breeze took its time before
filling in with the wind speed ranging between 15 and 20 knots over
3 races.

It was a welcome sight to see Adam Lowry back in the front of the boat
with Mike Martin driving as the team exhibited unmatched speed both on
and off the wind with straight bullets through the first 5 races.  As
Mike and Adam sailed away the rest of the fleet was remarkably close.
Ted Conrads and Brian Haines narrowly captured second, while teams
Miller/Diola and Russell/Miles took 3rd in races 1 and 2.  The third and
final race on Saturday was a nail biter for 2nd through 4th with
Conrads/Haines flipping on the last jibe to the finish before teams
Miller/Diola and Hamlin/Von Grey captured 2nd and 3rd respectively.

The morning conditions on Sunday were in stark contrast to Saturday with
temperatures in the high fifties and a cool sea breeze in full force as
the teams headed out for the 11 a.m. start.  The breeze was gusting up
to 25 knots into a fading ebb tide. Racing was once again tight behind
Mike and Adam with Conrads/Haines squeaking out a 2nd in race four and
John Turney and his teammate Ashley taking silver in race five.  After
sailing withAJ Conrads on Saturday, Rob Woelfel joined Mike Holt to
christen Mike’s new ship on Sunday.  As expected the pair put in a solid
performance with 3’s in races 4 and 5 before finishing off with a 2nd in
the final race. As the breeze built the final race turned out to be
a short but harrowing experience as Mike and Adam graced us with one
mistake as they took a swim during the spinnaker set before recovering
to finish 5th and solidly winning the event with 5 firsts and a 5th
place as a drop. 

Rounding out the top 5 were Conrads/Haines in 2nd, Miller/Diola tied
with Hamlin/Von Grey for 3rd and JB Turney and his teammate Ashley in
5th.

Link to results:
http://www.regattanetwork.com/event/7458#_newsroom+results


THANKS
-- 
Ted Conrads
