505 US East Coast Championship Report
Kingston Yacht Club, Kingston, Ontario, Canada
July 2-4, 2004

Jesse Falsone, Team CSC Sailing, USA 505 7200

A US Championship in Canada?

That was my first reaction after I learned that we were going to hold
the ECCs there. But, that reaction was only founded in formality because
Kingston is one of my all-time favorite places to sail. Besides,
Kingston is actually closer than New Bedford or Cape Cod for those of us
coming from the Mid-Atlantic and Virginia, and we donít have to drive
through New York, Boston, or Providence. So, Kingston it was, and what
a great time we all had at this prestigious venue. Jeff Boyd asked me to
report on the event, so at his request hereís my view from the front of
the fleet. I donít currently have the results and they were not posted
as of this writing.

Getting There

Ali and I didnít confirm our attendance at the regatta until about
2 weeks prior. I hastily made arrangements to drive up with Jahn
Tihansky and Dustin Romey in Jahnís Chevy Tahoe. I usually scorn such
automotive monstrosities as being ostentatious and wasteful, if not
downright dangerous in the wrong hands, but for the purpose of towing
boats and loading gear, the Tahoe was quite comfy. Thanks to Jahnís wife
for loaning him the SUV! We arrived at 0400 on Friday morning at our
hostís house, the Fowlers, slept (sort of) for a few hours, then rushed
out for breakfast at Morrisonís and boat rigging.

Competition

We were eager to defend the title we narrowly won last year, and we
thought (or at least I did) that the improvements we made in our
campaign would make winning a bit easier. I was wrong. There are some
very skilled ìboysî there in Kingston named Chris and Andrew Fowler with
a bright 505 future ahead of them. They made it tough on us. Never to be
underestimated, especially in his home waters, is Jeff Boyd. Jeff is now
sailing with Adam Schell after Martin has decided to take up rowing.
I donít blame him because crewing on the 505 can get pretty rough as you
get older, and I had no idea Martin was in his mid 40ís now. We also
believed Macy/Graham, Barney/George, Andy/Drew could all be factors in
the breeze. Henry sailed with Barb, who is undoubtedly the best female
505 crew in North America, and we knew they would be fast in light to
moderate air. Then, there was a multitude of other fast American and
Canadian boats (29 in all) that added to the mix. So it was, and
everyone had conditions that suited them during this event.

505 USA 7200

Ali knows I prefer the Rondar 8776 to 7200 because itís a bit lighter in
the ends, but that old Lindsay/Waterat is just as awesome to sail as it
is to look at. Ali, perhaps sensing that his sabbatical had to come to
an end eventually, took the opportunity last winter to completely
overhaul the boat in my garage. I insisted that the boat be set up as
a launcher boat so crew work would be the same as in 8776. With some
modifications, that boat works really well, and no forward thwart is
awesome for the crew.

Itís no wonder why Trevor Baylis wanted a new Waterat hull with the same
layout. Tom Kivney recalled that the vacuum was so tight when this hull
was laid up that they had trouble pulling it from the mold. Bottom line
is the boat is solid, and is great for flat water venues like Kingston.

Race Day 1 - Races 1,2, and 3

A moderate seabreeze filled in during the early afternoon, and we
launched in time to get a look at the wind and the course. One of the
best things about Kingston is the sail to the course - all 30 seconds of
it. I donít recall all the particulars of the first two races, but there
was some shuffling of the fleet. Team CSC made some mistakes in the
first one, but obviously not as many as the others and we went on to
win. John Wyles and Peter Beardsley had their best race of the series
finishing second. We were surprised to see some of our main competitors
take some big numbers. Order was restored in Race 2, but we managed to
sail a very good heat and stay well ahead for another win. For some
reason, everyone was allowing us to gate very early, so we figured weíd
stick with the same plan in Race 3. Ali pulled off his best start of the
series, and the wind picked up a bit to allow us to plane away upwind.
We hit a great gear in the first few minutes and were able to
comfortably cross the fleet and cover to the weather mark. We extended
on the downwind leg, and I had delusions of an easy regatta and an early
pack-up on Sunday. Everyone knows those are bad thoughts, and I was
punished severely for thinking them shortly after rounding the leeward
mark when Ali pulled on the forestay tackle and it abruptly exploded. We
were done for the day, and it was a good thing it happened in the third
race, and a better thing we didnít loose the rig. Jeff and Adam went on
to win the race closely followed by the Fowlers. Although Macy and
Graham were in the lead after Day 1 without drop races, these finishes
basically set up the showdown for rest of the series.

Race Day 2 - Races 4,5, and 6

We had mostly light breeze on Saturday, with some short-lived filling
here and there. It was basically DDW sailing, although light teams like
Henry and Barb decided to wire downwind mainly because it was more fun.
Unbelievably they didnít seem to suffer at all in about 8 knots! The
Fowlers were just awesome in the first two races, dueling with Jeff and
Adam, and basically extending with great speed and smarts. Team CSC took
a 3rd and a 6th in these two races, and we knew then this winning this
regatta was going to be difficult. The third race turned out to be
pivotal, and a tremendous boost to our confidence. We were selected as
the pathfinder for the start, and we figured the small advantage would
bode well for us. However, that advantage was quickly erased when we
watched the Fowlers and Boyd/Schell squirm out from underneath us going
left. From there on out, it was a three-boat game with no room for error
on our partbecause we were not exactly nipping at the heels of the
leaders. We played a good tactical game, taking small bites out of them
when we could, until we were allowed some leverage on the left,
downwind. We managed to round the last weather mark in between
Boyd/Schell and the Fowler brothers, with all three boats very tight.
The boys made a great move by jibing on the best angle while Team CSC
and 8264 basically overstood. Our goal was to keep separation and clear
air until 100 yards from the finish. We also wanted to somehow stick
8264 in front of the Fowlers to make some points on them. In the end,
whatever we did worked (or we were just lucky), and the three boats all
crossed the finish line within 2 seconds of each other. Ali had actually
thought we might have been nipped by Boyd/Schell, but I assured him we
had won. As it turned out, we needed these two points to win the event.

Race Day 3 -Races 7, 8, and 9

We were a bit nervous in the morning fearing another light air day when
under 2 knots was recorded in the clubhouse anemometer. However, the
forecast for a gradient 20-25 kph was spot on, and it filled in nicely
by race time. We were second in the standings, and this was our chance
to make up the three point deficit on the brothers. However, it didnít
work out the way we planned. We had a shot to win near the finish, but
the Fowlers found some breeze on the right while we wallowed in a hole
and behind Macy and Graham. We were now 5 points out, and we didnít feel
we were masters of our destiny anymore. We resolved to just try and win
and let the chips fall where they may. We handily won the 8th race and
werehappy to see our American competitors put some places between us and
the Fowlers, who finished 6th. The series was all tied up, and we won
the tie-breaker with more firsts. Having not gotten any sleep the night
before, I was mentally and physically drained, and ready to go in!
However, the committee had plans of finishing the nine-race series.
DRATS! OK, time to regroup and go for it. There was a hitch, however
- the Fowlers were the pathfinder! DOUBLE DRATS!! We decided to gate
near the end and try and grind them down. The boys were fast out of the
box, opting to tack when released. We saw it coming, and gated a few
lengths to weather. They held their advantage for the first cross, but
we opted to go left in search of a lefty near the mark which had
appeared almost every time. The shift didnít disappoint, and Team CSC
rounded in first just a few lengths ahead of the Fowlers. We opened up
a lead with a great set, and marched on to glory. We won the race with
Boyd/Schell 2nd and the Fowlers 3rd, winning overall by two points.

Hospitality

As always, Jeff, Florence, Steve, and the KYC members put on a great
show for us. We all gathered at Jeffís for dinner on Friday evening. It
was great to see a large crowd there wolfing down Tai food, or some
other oriental variant. The club dinner on Saturday evening was
spectacular in every way, and I could hardly move after stuffing myself
with chicken kabobs, salads, and pastries. Some of us won free ice cream
cones at the local creamery, so we all went out on the town to collect.
Wyles and Tihansky opted to find a bar with an inviting bar tender, and
there about a dozen of us plowed through a few select Canadian ales.
What really made the trip enjoyable for us was staying with the Fowlers,
who provided comfortable accommodations and a hearty breakfast before
racing.

I canít say enough about sailing in Kingston. Fresh water, great people,
and a variety of conditions make it perfect for everyone. The season is
never complete unless I spend a weekend there every summer. My personal
thanks to Ali for always giving 100% and to my sponsor, CSC, who
believes in our quest. Most imprtantly, thanks to my wife, Laura, who
puts up with my BS, and thanks to all that worked hard to make the East
Coast Championship a truly international event.

-----------------

505 East Coast Championship
July 2-4,
Kingston Yacht Club, Kingston Ontario

Large Fleet

Twenty nine teams from Ottawa, Kingston, Midwest, New England, and the
Mid-Atlantic participated in this event, making it one of the largest
East Coast Championship fleets in years. By my count there were six
Fleet 19 teams (Annapolis, Baltimore, Washington), three from Kingston
and five or six from Fleet 4 in nearby Ottawa. There were newcomers to
the class and veterans who have been racing 505s for 30+ years. Perhaps
you want to talk about depth? The fleet included at least two sailors
who had done America's Cup campaigns, a Pan Am Game's gold medalist and
Olympian, other sailors who had done Olympic campaigns, the perennial
US, Canadian and North American Albacore champion, past 505 East Coast
and North American champions, and other top sailors. There were also
good solid sailors who have figured or are figuring out the 505 and have
become/are becoming better.

Fresh Water

While a long way from being drinkable, the Great Lakes are fresh water
and the water in Lake Ontario is getting clearer thanks to the zebra
mussels (which are causing all sorts of other problems, but which do
help filter the water). We also had sunshine, but no classic Kingston
sea breeze (though we had close to it one day). There was breeze Friday
and Sunday, and it was lighter Saturday.

Races and Courses

Nine races, two throwouts. 8 races were double sausage, and 1 - race
8 -- was triple sausage. A modified version of the 505 gate start
procedure was used, with the gate opening as soon as their was room to
duck the stern of the gate launch and clear the anchored mark,
regardless of timing, and with the rabbit being released quite early in
the 1.5 minute gate. So the rabbit was typically able to tack to
starboard after about 1/3 of the fleet had started.

Friday

Race 1:

Go left, expect when right works. Lots of favored teams gate early, went
left, and were buried at the first weather mark. Wyles/Beardsley -- who
gated later -- were launched, but early leaders were reeled in by the
pack, and there was some confusion about which leeward mark to head for
- there was a CORK event being held out of Portsmouth Olympic Harbour,
and the windsurfer course was adjacent to the 505 course. The leaders
gybed over towards the wrong mark... they gybed back soon enough, but
that allowed the chasing pack to close up. Meller/Falsone punched
through at the top of the second beat, finding a "leftie" to round just
ahead of Wyles/Beardsley. At the finish it was Meller/Falsone,
Wyles/Beardsley, Erica Vines/Chris Gillies, Ki Kaiser/John Badtke, Macy
Nelson/Graham Schelter and Harris/Saunders 6th.

Race 2:

A little more wind speed allowing wire running. Meller/Falsone gated
first and led the fleet to the left, and were very soon able to tack and
cross the fleet, and then tack back in a position to cover. A couple of
shifts made it rather close, but Meller/Falsone punched through and won
the race. The Fowlers were second, Buttner/Herlihy 3rd, Nelson/Schelter
4th, Boyd/Schell 5th, Henry and Barb Amthor 6th.

Race 3:

Similar conditions to race 2. Meller/Falsone gated first and led to the
left, going deeper into the corner and then tacked. They were leading
comfortably at the bottom of the run and early on the second beat, but
the breeze went lighter, and while standing the rig up to power up,
there was a bang, and the forestay tackle let go. Meller/Falsone turned
downwind and sailed in, wishing a good race to the new leaders,
Boyd/tenHove. Boyd/Schell won easily, the Fowlers were 2nd,
Buttner/Herlihy 3rd, Nelson/Schelter 4th, the Amthors 5th and
Harris/Saunders 6th. Meller/Falsone had been on their way to a 3 bullet
day, but the DNF left them well back overall and needing a throwout
badly.

Saturday

Lighter winds, postponed on shore, then enough breeze to launch.

Race 4:

Boyd/Schell won the scramble to gate early and led early. The Fowlers
emerged from the fracas, worked right and with excellent speed and
incredible pointing were soon in control. Meller/Falsone ate dirty air
for much of the first beat, and rounded well back The Fowlers won with
Boyd/Schell 2nd, Meller/Falsone finished 3rd, the Amthors 4th, John
Hauser/Sol Marini 5th, and Kitney/Kivney 6th.

Race 5:

Hauser/Marini used their rabbit role to good effect. They were at the
front of the fleet for most of the race, and finished 3rd. The Ottawa
team of Debbie Ashby and Dave Adams were very fast upwind and down, and
finished 2nd, but the Fowlers took another gun. Boyd/Schell were 4th,
The Amthors passed Meller/Falsone at the top of the last beat and sailed
a fast run to finish 5th. Meller/Falsone were 6th, very narrowly in
front of Erika Vines/Chris Gillies (7th), Romey/Tihansky (8th) and
Nelson/Shelter (9th).

Race 6:

The Amthors had already been the pathfinder, so 6th place
- Meller/Falsone - were the pathfinder. They had a clean start with
clear air and tacked back to cover. But the Fowlers were punched and
pointing high, and Meller/Falsone were soon forced to tack away. At the
bottom of the run the Fowlers were leading with Boyd/Schell second. The
wind had clocked, and Meller/Falsone had closed a little bit by gybing
earlier and sailing a shorter distance into the leeward mark. The
Fowlers sailed a short distance on port and then as Boyd/Schell came
around the leeward mark and tacked, the Fowlers tacked to cover. Shortly
behind Boyd/Schell, Meller/Falsone rounded, sailed a couple of
boatlengths for clear air and also tacked. A couple of teams close
behind Meller/Falsone followed the Fowlers and went right first. The
Fowlers were well into the process of sailing away with the race as they
were pointing higher, but a small back cost them some distance and then
they seemed trapped in either less pressure or more current, and started
dropping back, even as they gained height. The teams in 4th and 5th were
also hurting for pressure and dying on the right. The small backs - and
perhaps a pointing problem - had dropped Meller/Falsone into
Boyd/Schell's dirty air, and they tacked to port to clear, before the
left corner of the beat. This spooked the herd, and Boyd/Schell and the
Fowlers also tacked. Still a little short of the layline, and feeling
a little desperate, Falsone pushed for another tack, and Meller/Falsone
tacked back to starboard and headed for the corner. Boyd/Schell and the
Fowlers continued as they were not far off the layline. When
Falsone/Meller tacked back on the port tack layline, they had a little
leverage, and more important a little more pressure. Furthest right of
these three teams, the Fowlers were still in less pressure and perhaps
more current. In what seemed nearly miraculous to Meller, the Fowlers
dropped to third, Boyd/Schell pulled through to lead, and Meller/Falsone
were second at the windward mark, with the teams separated by perhaps
two to three boatlengths. All three teams did bear away sets in the
light air. After awhile it was apparent that Boyd/Schell were sailing
slightly higher, and the Fowlers were sailing slightly lower, so the
three teams spread out a little. The Fowlers gybed first and
Meller/Falsone and Boyd/Schell immediately followed suit. It became
apparent that the Fowlers had waited until they could lay the finish
before gybing, and Meller/Falsone and Boyd/Schell had sailed slightly
too far. Both Meller/Falsone and Boyd/Schell held low, not wanting to
sail into the wind shadow of the boat to windward. As the three teams
approach the line, Meller decided it was now or never, and
Meller/Falsone rapidly went into close reaching mode, accelerated,
brought the relative wind forward and only just broke through Fowlers
wind shadow. This put both teams a little higher than the course they
had been sailing, heading for the pin end of the line. From in front,
Meller fanned and luffed the main in an effort to slow down the Fowlers,
while Boyd/Schell sailed up around the anchor line of the RC boat and
rocked down and pumped to bear the boat off and cross at the favored RC
boat end, inches in front of the Fowlers. Meller was unsure what the
finish order was until he spoke with the RC chairman later, but it was
Meller/Falsone, Boyd/Schell and the Fowlers. Wyles/Beardsley were 4th,
the Amthors 5th, and Graham Alexander/Dave Stetson 6th.

With a 1,1,3 the Fowlers had won the day convincingly, putting them
ahead overall with one throw out. Meller/Falsone's last race
come-from-behind win had kept them in the hunt, three points back, while
Boyd/Schell's 2,4,2 left them 2 points behind Meller/Falsone.

Sunday:

The wind was nearly non existent when we arrived in the morning, and
what breeze we could see was from the east, a horrible direction in
Kingston, normally resulting in a very light air day with big holes and
big shifts. The RC was determined to go ahead with the early start time,
and the competitors dutifully drifted out to the race course, only to
find the breeze building and shifting around to the right, within 30
degrees of the classic Kingston sea breeze.

Race 7:

Macy Nelson/Graham Schelter led this race most of the way around,
various teams got close to them at times, but Macy/Graham were able to
drive them back. On the run to the finish, the Fowlers wire ran past
them while Macy/Graham stayed low holding off Meller/Falsone. Fowler's
win coupled with Meller/Falsone's third and Boyd/Schell's fourth, put
them in the driver's seat for the overall.

Race 8:

With the Fowlers up by five points over Meller/Falsone, and Boyd/Schell
not far behind, Meller/Falsone decided it was pointless to maneuver
against the Fowlers and simply tried to sail a good race. A left shift
at the top of the first beat allowed them to round first, and they
pulled away down the first run, and covered easily from there to take
the win. Despite the longer race - a triple sausage - the Fowlers were
unable to get up past 6th place, which left the Fowlers tied with
Meller/Falsone, and Boyd/Schell 3rd.

Race 9:

The RC had decided to try and make up the race missed on Saturday, so
a 3rd race Sunday - 9th race - was held. This race meant that there
would be two throwouts. After some careful calculation, Meller/Falsone
determined that Boyd/Schell could not catch them, and that it was a two
boat winner-take-all final between the Fowlers and Meller/Falsone. This
created the opportunity for one team to go after the other, but the
Fowlers were the rabbit (pathfinder), so neither team was able to go
after the other, and the Fowlers got a clear air start. The modified
gate start (early release of pathfinder) allowed the Fowlers to come out
of the gate earlier than Meller/Falsone. Meller/Falsone set off in
pursuit, and were able to pull ahead of the teams starting near them,
but as the teams that had been able to continue on starboard approached
the left corner, early gaters Brooke Hamilton/Gifford were able to
easily cross the fleet. The Fowlers tacked to weather of them. Without
a lane to go before the Fowlers, Meller/Falsone went past them, a little
further into the left corner and tacked on their hip. A long port tack
to the mark ensued, with the boats going faster in the flatter water on
the left. Meller/Falsone were hoping for a leftie, something they had
seen at the top of the beat on several occasions, and they were
fortunate that a combination of pointing high in the flat water, and
a leftie pulled them back to level with Hamilton/Gifford and the
Fowlers. These two teams tacked on the starboard layline with
Hamilton/Gifford leading, and Fowlers on their hip. As Meller/Falsone
approached on port they were studying the layline situation anxiously,
and decided they could lee-bow and lay the mark. They did, and then
a little bit of a lift made it easier to lay, and also allowed Barney
Harris/George Saunders to go into pinch mode and get up to the mark, as
Meller/Falsone reached over the top of them inside two boatlengths. With
all four teams right there, it came down to a fast hoist and an escape,
and Meller/Falsone pulled it off, and wire ran low with the pole back
a little so as to delay sailing into a hole that frequently developed in
the lee of the nearby island. The three other teams dueled a little
higher and sure enough sailed into the hole and had to gybe in lower
pressure, while Meller/Falsone stayed in pressure longer and opened up.
Boyd/Schell rounded shortly behind the four leaders and gybe set, and
soon everyone was on port fighting their way through the lighter air in
the middle, before finding another puff to ride down towards the leeward
mark. Boyd/Schell pulled up to second at the leeward mark, but the only
boat Meller/Falsone could see was 8698, and they loose covered up the
second beat. Down the run to the finish Meller/Falsone were comfortably
ahead, with Boyd/Schell second. Harris/Saunders got back into the mix
for awhile, but lost the fast Fowlers down the last run. At the finish
it was Meller/Falsone, taking the overall by two points. Boyd/Schell
second, good for third overall, the Fowlers 3rd, good for second
overall. Saunders/Harris were 4th, Nelson/Schelter 5th and Henry and
Barb Amthor 6th.

Wow, What a Mess

John Hauser had been rear-ended as he left his home in Annapolis to
drive up to Kingston. His Waterat 505 took the brunt of the damage and
was pushed forward by the car behind, pushing through the front of the
trolley, the mast support on the trailer, the tail gate on John's
Explorer and up though the rear window. While the boat probably absorbed
a lot of the energy and helped protect the occupants, it was very badly
damaged. Kudos to John for not letting this stop him, and for calling
his crew Sol and asking Sol to tow Sol's boat to the regatta. John
borrowed Dustin's car to get to the regatta. John and Sol were racing
despite the damage. As of July 18, it is not yet clear if 7876 is going
to be a write off, or if it will be repaired.

Kiss This...

Remember the KISS Rondars that came over? These were simply rigged,
vinylester 505s. Well the Fowlers were racing KISS #1, 8698. And they
were FLYING!

Tuning Notes

Jesse and I were using a smallish Waterat High Aspect Ratio centerboard
and a Waterat high aspect ratio rudder (though one not originally made
for 7200 but one fit to the boat, such that the blade is raked too
much). I think the HA foils are great whenever you are trapezing, but
the smaller ones may be a slight disadvantage in the very light stuff.

We used a D mast. These are softer sideways than the Cumulus. I believe
the D is too soft sideways for optimum mainsail shape wire running
downwind in serious breeze, but the sideways softness and softer tip is
nice upwind unless you are sailing with a tall or heavy crew.

We tried the "Hank Yank" upper trap wire system, but didn't like it.
Having also tried the Team Pegasus twin tail trap wire system and not
liking it either, I think we have to try the trap twings next.

We put the board forward in light air, at zero the rest of the time,
also zero wire running

We raked forward of 3'4" (25'8" measured the old way) in lighter air,
and did not rake much in breeze

We used a newly-tweaked design North main which we really like, a nearly
new full-hoist North jib Friday and Saturday, and an older North
short-luff jib (to avoid putting too many miles on the new jib) on the
Sunday.

We used a North V8 spinnaker. I think we could usually pass anyone near
us downwind, with faster hoists and gybes, and better speed through the
water with that V8.

7200 felt better in the flatter water, or when pressured up. I think it
is not as fast against other 505s in chop when underpowered, but is just
fine the rest of the time. Not bad for a twenty-four year old boat!

Other Cool Stuff

Jeff and other organizers had arranged for gift certificates at White
Mountain, a great ice cream store in downtown Kingston. It is possible
that every single 505 sailor made it there Friday or Saturday night.

Jeff and Florence hosted another dinner "chez" Boyd's, only this time it
was Thai/Oriental. Wow!

On a personal note, I learned to sail and race, and first raced 505s, in
Ottawa, just 1.5 hours drive Northeast of Kingston. 505 Fleet Four in
Ottawa was the best fleet I have ever come across anywhere, in any
class. I can remember getting 25 505s our for a club racing evening, and
recall parties with nearly 100 people all of them tied in some way to
505 fleet 4, though some had never actually gotten into a 505. A lot of
old friends were in Kingston and it was great to see so many old
friends, and also exciting to see some of them in new boats. Ali
