St Francis YC Spring Dinghy-Bruce reports
2015-03-10

The first major regatta of the season in California got off to a bang
this past weekend in San Francisco. Though racing was postponed on both
days, the wind filled in nicely and we were treated to summer like
conditions. Saturday was sailing in a nice 8 to 14 knots and Sunday
kicked off with 10 knots from the NW building to 15-16 with puffs into
the 20s according to the RC. A nice air temp in the mid 60’s capped off
an amazing weekend. 

With many of the fleets boats doing the Panama turn around instead of
going to the worlds, several people borrowed boats and gear. Rob and
Aaron were sailing the B boat while the beautiful new Waterat is taking
a nice vacation to Panama. The northwest fleet was represented by Brain
Trainor who made the 1000 mile trek south, and Davey Chatham taking time
off from the Orchards of Washington. Ian O’leary and Dan Esdorn made
great showings. Tim Murphy made it out on Sunday after nursing a sick
kid on Saturday. 

We felt bad that so many of our compatriots are suffering with sub zero
temps and snow on the same weekend on the east coast, well not that bad
;-) We had a nice turn out of 12 boats and the racing was really tight,
with the exception of Mike and Rob who seemed to be racing themselves on
Saturday, as they took 3 bullets on the day. The racing was on the Bravo
Course just to the west of Alcatraz. The rest of the fleet had some
really close racing. Jeff Miller and Pat Diola pulled out a nice finish
in race 1 in 2nd as past WC Mike Martin and Adam Lowry forgot to drop
their chute at the last bottom mark. Bruce & Dave pulled off a 3rd,
closely following by Bob and Rich, & JB and Tommy. Race 2 & 3 were held
in nice steady building westerly. Race 2 showed an amazing comeback from
zero to hero by Bob and Rich when the found nice current hard left on
the last beat taking a well earned 2nd, closely followed by Bruce and
Dave, and JB and Tommy. 

On Sunday, Mike and Rob decided to race with the rest of us. The day
dawned looking like no wind and with the time change it was looking
grim, but the bay didn’t disappoint and a nice westerly that built all
day began to fill in.  Jeff and Pat nailed the start then proceeded to
sail inside Anita Rock and then round the top mark the wrong way,
earning a nice discard in the process. Race 4 had the breeze building
from the gate, and probably the tightest racing of the weekend. The race
finish was a nail biter and saw the top 4 boats finish within 15
seconds, Mike and Adam got the win in the race, with JB & Tommy sailing
a great race and getting a 2nd. They were closely followed by Mike & Rob
in 3rd and Bob and Rich in 4th. Race 5 was again another close one with
Mike & Adam getting the gun, closely followed by Mike & Rob, JB & Tommy,
and Bruce and Dave. Race 6 saw an nice big puffs off the city front
pushing into the 20 knot range at times, and Rob & Mike got back on it
after a close race and took the win. Jeff Miller & Pat came back and
repeated race 1 by taking 2nd, closely followed by Mike & Adam, and JB
& Tommy. 

Overall, Mike & Rob, won the event, followed by Mike & Adam, and Bruce
& Dave / JB & Tommy tied on points for 3rd. Complete results are
available at St Francis Yacht Clubs website. 

Next up on the schedule is the Worlds for those lucky enough to attend.
Followed by the “Thrilla in Cabrillo” on April 25-26th at LAYC, and The
Elvstrom /Zellerbach on May 2-3 at StFYC. 

~Bruce

