PCC's report
Mike Holt
2015-05-20

The following is Rich Mundel’s report on the PCC’s:

Under unseasonably mixed skies 17 boats set sail in Santa Barbara for
three days of close racing.

With an expectation and forecast for big breeze, the first 3 races on
day one saw convincingly wins by Howie and Andy with 10-12 knots in the
first and then only 8-10 knots when Howie pulled off another bullet.

The third race started in about 6 knots but dropped off at one point to
near nothing. So much for marine forecasts. Finally enough came in to
allow mike martin and Adam Lowry to finish first with Kevin Taugher and
SBYC founder (not quite, but he remembers when the 'new' clubhouse was
built) Don smith in second and JeffM and PatD in third.

Howie had a tough one finishing 7th. So After day one the leaders were,
MikeM and Adam followed by Howie and Andy and MikeH and RobW.

A great debrief was held on the yacht club deck with good beer, classic
marguerites and even a stiff martini served under the guise of a "cold
remedy" loosening tongues and making for fun conversations.

Saturday again promised more breeze but failed to deliver resulting in
only two with a choppy 6-8 knots. First race saw Howie/Andy with another
win just ahead of MikeH/Rob and MikeM/Adam respectively.

Race five had Howie/Andy back in top form and Ryan Cox with crew Garret
Baum taking second. MikeH/Rob and MikeM/Andy followed closely with third
and fourth. Saturday evening the club hosted dinner and beer down on the
beach. A chilly but lovely venue looking over the water.

Sunday morning things didn't look promising  but after an onshore
postponement, the slightly reduced fleet went out for what turned out to
be another two good, closely fought light air races.

After a few generals the fleet was off with Howie and a few others going
left for what looked to be more wind.  The majority of the fleet were
going right for the known SB advantage that "should" come from there.
Right up the middle were two grey whales that had boats expecting
imminent groundings at any moment and paths were crossed. Pretty cool to
have though things literally surfacing 25 ft in front of you. Those
"locals" were heading right too and sure enough it's the beach side that
paid off with MikeH/Rob leading a tight pack around the top mark. Howie
and Andy, were a good number of boats back returning from the left. With
Mike and Rob holding onto that first through the finish, Mike and Adam
finishing second, and Howie and Andy keeping a fifth, it meant it was
any of those three still in it to win it going into the last race.

Race seven saw quite a shift at the start. So much so that just about
every boat started on port causing some interesting and heated
discussions leading away from the line. JeffM and PatD had the Jets and
led most of the race only to have kelp send Jeff bobbing for apples at
the tip of his rudder and finishing a frustrated (and wet) fifth. KevinT
and DonS were the benefactors of Jeff's seaweed harvesting and pulled
off the final bullet of the regatta with Howie/Andy and Mike/Rob
finishing 2 and 3. Ryan and Garret finished 4th and Jeff/Pat with their
fifth left MikeAnd Adam with a sixth to become their throw.

A great tight regatta could have belonged to any of three boats but
Howe/Andy reigned supreme with Mike/Rob and Mike/Adam close behind.
Kevin and Don finished fourth, Ryan and Garret were fifth and Jeff and
Pat were 6th.

There were a few call outs to be made. One was the traveling boats
coming from the north, south AND west. From Seattle came Colin and Max
with their new paint job and flashy new sails. Nice job with that
improved last race guys! PVG also came down to join Doug Hagan who was
getting some mainland time by coming over from Maui.  From San Diego
came Channing and Hamlet and Gary and Dan. Always good to see you guys.
We also had a few possible 505 recruits dragged out for some racing in
Bob's 8970. On Friday Jeff Sharp jumped in to crew for Bob while Rich
desperately sought some back therapy in SB. Then on Saturday and Sunday
local youth sailing rock star and current 49er campaigner, Dane Wilson
gave 505s a try for the first time driving for Rich (Bob had to fly
home). Four people in one boat in one weekend - sheesh! Both Jeff and
Dane did great and we hope to see them in the class again soon. Too bad
there wasn't more wind to show them the other side of the 5oh.

A huge thanks to the race committee and SBYC for hosting what is always
a fun regatta regardless of the winds. Also to Ryan cox for liaising
with the club and promoting within the fleet to get a decent turnout. If
you missed it, you should get SB onto your future regatta calendar!

