St Francis report
Mike Holti
201508-11

This past weekend, August 8/9 ten boats took to the water during St
Francis YC Albert T Simpson regatta. Traditionally a keel boat event,
room was made to add a start for us, along with J70’s, Wylie Rabbits and
Open 5.7’s. This actually worked out very well as we had the ramps and
the changing rooms all to ourselves, making life much easier than the
dinghy based events usually are.

Racing took place on the city front, with straight forward 2 lap
windward leeward courses. However what was not straightforward was the
first day of sailing. I think after the thunderstorms on Thursday night
there was still some “weather” around on Saturday and the wind was
coming off the shore with a big Southerly content. During the day, the
sea breeze slowly established over the gradient pressure, but it made
for some interesting decisions, play the pressure down the shore or head
out to the middle looking for more wind. Big gains and losses were
seen based on calling it right. On Saturday there were 4 races,
unfortunately for Rob and me, we only completed the first 2 before
succumbing to a failed rudder gudgeon in the 3rd race. The pin actually
failed in the middle of the fitting! At the end of the 4 races Skip
McCormack and Mike Martin were tied for first with Stuart Park and Adam
Roberts, Dave Shelton and Bruce Edwards led a tight battle for 3rd.
Stuart and Adam’s performance was all the more impressive as they had
not sailed together before and Adam has very low miles in a 5O5, up
against, shall we say, some experienced teams…

Sunday again saw the wind start with more South in it than normal but
after a short postponement the sea breeze dragged the wind to it’s usual
position and 3 races were held in what start as fresh and ended in
frightening conditions! Fresh from a half a days racing on Saturday, Rob
and I sailed with the throttle wide open all day to win all 3 races. But
we didn’t have it all our own way. Dave and Bruce in particular had
great upwind speed and lead at 2 windward marks and Tommy Finks and JB
Turney, Pat Diola and Jeff Miller, Skip and Mike and Stuart and Adam all
mixed it up to make it tight racing.  By race 3 however, only 4 boats
were left standing and on our boat at least it was right on the limit,
gybe setting at the windward mark, back out in to max pressure and then
sailing straight down the city front in what felt like 30 knots of
breeze, totally on the edge was as good as it gets. Sailing past the
keel boats as though they had forgotten to put up sails.

When the spray had settled and the scores were added up, Skip and Mike
won, with Stuart and Adam taking second in a tie break with Dave and
Bruce. Well sailed all!

As usual the St Francis YC did a fantastic job on the water, led by John
Siegel and his team and ashore they fed and watered us brilliantly too.
Is there a better place to sail in August?

After racing Jeff Miller and I had a conversation about set up, so here
are my settings for Sunday. Upwind we had the rig as far back as it
would go, all day. Ram on hard to the back of the mast gate. Shroud cars
all the way back too. Although shroud tension was firm it wasn’t really
hard. I think that is dangerous with the cars all the way back. We had
the barber haulers on all the way out, to within 4” of the gunwale and
the board 3” up past vertical (Waterat 480). Cunningham on as hard as
I can pull, same with outhaul and flattener, jib luff as hard as I can
pull it too. I am then trying to sail the boat as flat and as fast as
I can, bow down and pushing whenever I can and steering to minimize
waves on the bow when I could. Although there were some very big
landings by race 3. Downwind I am pulling the board up one more inch,
easing a ton of vang but not touching anything else and we were sailing
“hot” Rob was lowish on the wire, I was hiking hard at the back of the
boat. What was everyone else doing?

Mike

