The  505 South East Areas 1996

Brighton Marina YC was host to the 505 South East area championship, sponsored
by Ronstan, over the weekend of June 22-23. The courses consisted of a
triangle, sausage, with the finish at the end of the run. Four races were held
with three to count.

A South-Westerly breeze of 15 knots greeted the competitors for the start of
the first race. Together with the steep waves this leads to exciting
conditions.

Terry Scutcher and Simon Lake led at the first mark and hoisted their
spinnaker. By the gybe mark Hector Cisneros and Lawrence Crispin had taken the
lead by two sailing the first reach while all around were struggling with three
sails.

At the next windward mark Ian Barker and Bill Masterman had fought their way to
the front. At the finish it was Barker, then Cisneros, then Scutcher, followed
by Ian Pinnell and Mark Darling in fourth.

The second race started in similiar conditions with the wind swinging right 20
degrees in the gusts and dropping towards the end of the race.

Barker again revelled in the conditions, pulling away from the fleet.
Unfortunately, a ripped spinnaker and a broken trapeze harness hook meant an
early exit to watch the England football match. This left Pinnell with a
comfortable win from Martin Hodson and Paul Beasley, followed by Cisneros.

On Sunday morning the third race was held in a shifty northerly, ranging from
5-10 knots. Pinnell continued his winning ways to lead around the windward mark
and sail away from the fleet. Behind there was a close battle for second place
with Barker coming out on top from Richard Tew and Simon Hiscocks.

The sea breeze had filled in for the last race with Pinnell leading Barker. If
Pinnell finished second then victory was his.

Pinnell came fast out of the gate and looked to be leading. Barker tacked off,
found more breeze and tacked back to be lifted up to the windward mark. Barker
led with Pinnell close on his heels.

The situation remained the same until the last beat with both of them opening
up a large lead over the fleet. Barker decided to rectify the situation by
placing a close cover on Pinnell. Twenty tacks later they were still first and
second but by now the pursuing pack had closed right up.

Barker held onto the lead down the run to the finish but Hodson just caught
Pinnell on the finish line to take second place.

Barker and Masterman were victorious, winning the South East area championship
by the narrowest of margins. The 505 open meeting circuit continues to thrive
with exciting racing throughout the fleet. The Ronstan sponsorship has
benefited all competitors, with a subsidised social event being organised for
the Saturday nights


