Nick Adamson
16 mar 2009, 22:18:53
do 505-usa-west-coast@googlegroups.com, 505-north-america@googlegroups.com

Greetings 505 Fleet,

18 boats showed up for the StFYC Spring Dinghy regatta held over the past
weekend on the City Front in San Francisco. A minor weather system passed
through over the weekend so the conditions were cold with gusty, shifty
winds blowing out of the South-Southwest at 10-20mph. Although we had a
good turnout, a lot of people struggled with equipment breakdowns and just
getting to the event. Howard/Jeff/Andy are now intimately familiar with how
to have a fuel pump replaced on a weekend in the middle of the Valley (you
don't want to go there....). I guess we now know how to beat these guys -
sabotage their car so they can't get to the event!!

When everyone was on the water together it was difficult, but great racing.
Kevin Taugher and Ben Benjamin sailed fast and smart to win on the water.
Unfortunately they were a little too eager at the start of the first race on
Sunday and were called OCS which dropped them a point behind Steve Bourdow
and I who made the concept of "backing into a win" oh so true with our
performance on Sunday. The newly formed team of Ryan Cox and Stuart Park
edged the newly formed team of Ted Conrads and Brian Haines for third and
fourth. Both of these teams sailed excellent in the shifty conditions on
Sunday (tied for first for the day) and served notice that there are some
new contenders to deal with on the west coast. The once gone, once back,
gone again, and now back again duo of Bruce Edwards and Dave Shelton rounded
out the top five.

Here's the link to the results:

https://event-manager.compete-at.com/Manager/download?inline=false&fileid=3z
qXf1237222755383

And here's the links to the photos that were taken at the event (thanks Mark
and Jason!):

http://www.flickr.com/photos/e37eclipse

http://ultimate-yachtshots.smugmug.com/gallery/7563619_T35vH#P-1-9

Next regatta might be the TISC 505 Regatta on the April 4-5 weekend. A
go/no go confirmation will be sent in the next day or so. If that doesn't
happen, the PCC's will be held on the April 25-26 weekend at Cabrillo Beach
Yacht Club.

Hope to see you all on the water in San Francisco this year!

Best,
-Nick


Nick Adamson
