5O5 SCYC Sept 26+27, 2009
Aaron Ross
2009-09-30

Thirteen 5O5's turned up last weekend for the Santa Cruz YC Fall Open
Regatta. Saturday was beautiful, with a warm 12-15 knots of breeze and
gentle seas. We shared the course with plenty of kelp, a herd of sea
lions, and a handful of Contenders. In the first race, Jeff and Mike
gybe-set, and lost big. Greg and I passed them on the run. Jeff and Mike
got past us on the next beat after the gate, but we held on to finish
third, the highlight of our day, so we celebrated with cold beverages.

The two Pegasus (Pegasi?) were slow to take flight, but made the second
race, bringing the boat count up to 9. I don't recall many details after
that, but Greg and I continued celebrating, and got three sevenths. The
sailing was delightful. Race 3, Mike and Bruce swapped boats, and each
experienced string dyslexia. That might also be when Holtie did a back
flip swim mid-race.

Race four saw a heavily favored boat (left) end of the line, but most
teams lined up on starboard. With the courage of a few post race
beverages, Greg and I went for a port tack approach. Unfortunately, the
beverages may have thrown our timing off, arriving 5 seconds too soon.
With discretion prevailing, we ducked a few boats, and were off. The
rest of the beat was a blur, but I'm sure we did really, really well.
The breeze had finally filled enough to gybe-set, but we had only
practiced bearing off. So we capsized. I stayed dry, so I don't know why
Greg had a problem with it.

The fleet then assembled on the yacht club deck for an excellent debrief
and happy hour.

A few more teams showed up Sunday, but unfortunately, the beautiful
conditions did not hold, and light wind prevailed. With visions of
a Betty Burger and the nascar race, Greg and I drifted back to the
harbor. Thick fog rolled in by the second race, and Wahle shortened
after the first lap.

Mark and Mike Lazarro had a very nice showing in their new to them
Kyrwood. This one should float a bit better than their old one did last
month. Ian was like a kid on Christmas, grinning ear to ear with his new
Hamlin. Jason and Mark arrived late and took some time rigging their new
Waterat, but made it out for the last race. This was Mark's first time
crewing, Jason was glad the light wind prevented Mark from attempting
the trapeze. Eben and Stephen have each moved their boats to Santa Cruz,
so we should have decent numbers for our winter series.
 
The next event is StFYC Fall Dinghy October 24+25 Aaron
