Mike Holt
2009-07-30

San Francisco Yacht Club 505 Worlds “warm up”

July 25th and 26th saw the 505 class visit San Francisco Yacht Club,
that is oddly in Tiburon across the bay for the first time. A who’s who
of US 505 sailors were there to compete in the last event before the
upcoming Worlds and North American’s on the same strip of water.

Racing Saturday started with the fog cleared and the breeze already in
the high teens and a pattern was set that would last all weekend. Jeff
Nelson and Mike Martin were fast off of the line to lead at the first
mark, in fact by the end of 6 races they were never lead around any
marks that I can remember. We all chased hard but no one could make any
impact on them. Carl and I were 2nd, a position that we held at most
points in the races with the exception of race 3 when our mast step
disintegrated. Note to all, if you have a plastic mast step, replace it
now with a metal one! By the end of the racing Saturday 3 good tough
races were completed on well set courses by PRO Bartz Schneider and his
excellent team. Jeff/Mike won all 3, Carl and I had two 2nds and a DNF,
Fritz Lanzinger and Dalton Bergan had a 3,3,5 with Rob Woelfel and Howie
Hamlin picking up a 4,6,3 score. Steve Bourdow and Nick Adamson improved
all day with a 9,5,2.

The evening was spent straightening spars, telling war stories and
eating an excellent BBQ put on by the yacht club. Very few sailors made
it past 10pm!

Sunday provided more of the same, great breeze, sunshine and more
excellent race management. Jeff/Mike strolled away with every race,
getting us excited in the first one with a near capsize on a gybe,
however that was their only wobble. Race 2 saw reaches, a rarity these
days in any form of racing and clearly a lost art, but great fun, real
decisions about setting and dropping and the chance to grind down or be
ground down. The chasing pack while never bothering the Black boat
seemed closer all day, maybe Mike forgot his vitamins and wasn’t hiking
so hard. Several boats were having some close racing, with Simon Gorman
and Ethan Bixby having their moments, along with Dave Shelton and Bruce
Edwards finally getting their new Rondar up to speed as were Geof
Ewenson and Tyler Moore who managed a pair of 4’s on Sunday. Also
notable on Sunday, everyone was getting around the course with much less
drama, proving that practice while maybe not making you perfect,
certainly helps you get around the course.

Many thanks to San Francisco Yacht Club and in particular Bartz and Mark
Dowdy, great job and hopefully we will be asked back again!
 
