Mike Holt
cze 200906-01

Santa Cruz Yacht Club hosted their Spring 505 Open over the weekend of
May 30/31 and 21 boats arrived to race. Conditions were a little more
over cast than we would have liked and the wind was therefore not giving
us the sort of conditions we all wanted to practice in for the Worlds
that are now less than 3 months away.

The race management team of Dave Whale and Phil Vandenberg got in 3 good
races on Saturday, the first two in around 8-10 knots, giving occasional
trapezing and very tactical racing. Brian Haines and Ted Conrads got off
to a fast start with a 1, 2 while Jeff Nelson and Mike Martin started
with a 7th and then a win in the second race. Carl Smit and Mike Holt
had a solid start with a 2, 3. By the start of the third race the wind
had built a bit to full trapping and wire running, clearly into
Jeff/Mike conditions as they recorded their second win. Carl/Mike chased
hard to put another 2nd on the board and Steve Bourdow and Nick Adamson
rounded out the top 3 giving them two 3rds for the day. Racing was close
through out the fleet with some very congested mark roundings.

Following a birthday BBQ at Matthias's house on the Saturday evening,
racing resumed on Sunday in more promising conditions. Wind was up at
12+ knots from the start and full trapezing and wire running were the
order of the day, as were Gate Starts. Carl/Mike extended their lead at
the top with a win in race 4, followed by Mike Smith and Jeff Miller,
Steve/Nick picked up their third 3rd! Race 5 started in a little bit
more breeze and Jeff/Mike won from Geoff Ewenson and Tyler Moore who
were out representing the "other" coast. Carl/Mike crossed in 3rd.

Going into the final race in the no discard event Carl/Mike lead Jeff
and Mike by 5 points, reasonably comfortable but no sure fire deal. The
breeze was now up to a good 15-16 knots and pathfinders Peter Alarie and
Hasso Plattner rounded 1st, Carl and Mike were in 3rd with Jeff and Mike
one place further back. However, rounding the mark Carl and Mike fouled
Geoff and Tyler and things weren't looking so pretty following a couple
of circles. By the bottom of the run three places separated the two and
Jeff and Mike did everything they could to increase that number. By the
last run with the breeze still increasing and both boats gybing early
Jeff/Mike had got up to 2nd behind Peter/Hasso but Carl/Mike had moved
up to third. The places stayed this way with Peter/Hasso holding off the
challenges behind.

A fantastic weekend of racing with some excellent coaching and
debriefing for everyone from Jay and Pease Glaser and Skip Whyte. The
next event will be on the Worlds course on June 27/28.
