nland Championships
GRAFHAM WATER SC, 17/18 April 1999

Forty boats came to Grafham for the Inlands, expecting (from Friday's TV
weather forecast) cold and showery weather, and light to moderate Easterly
wind, due to freshen considerably by Sunday. In the event, a gentle Northerly
was blowing when we arrived, which became progressively lighter as the weekend
went on.

In Race 1, those early out of the gate benefitted from the freedom to tack in
the shifty and variable breeze coming from anywhere between north and west.
Mark Upton- Brown & Ian Mitchell established a useful lead on the first beat,
enough to stay ahead of Debbie Jarvis & Dan Johnson and Rob Napier & Kimball
Morrison who came up with a late shift to the right. On the next two rounds,
however, the left favoured, with Charlie Walters & Christian Diebitsch going
well and gaining considerably. Clive Robinson & Garry Cawthorne, and next time
Richard Tew & John Ironmonger were amongst those losing out on the right. The
Upton-Brown/Mitchell, Jarvis/Johnson and Walters/Diebitsch teams held their
places to the finish.

In contrast, in Race 2 the late starters were initially favoured, with a decent
force 3 apparently filling in from the east. However, the wind soon died to
under 5 knots, and got lighter and lighter. A breakaway bunch of six boats, led
by Mike Holt & Paul Beasley and with none of the leaders of the first race,
were still just flying spinnakers towards the end of the second leg when the
race officer abandoned the race, presumably because of the intense thunder
storm that then broke over the fleet. Racing was postponed to Sunday.

By Sunday, the forecasters had changed their mind about the wind (but not the
cold and the wet), and this time they were right - what little wind there was
was soon to die to nothing. A start was made (at the second attempt) using a
line start. At the gun, the bias was heavily to the left, and those able to get
onto port immediately appeared best placed. However, the subsequent shifts and
puffs and holes in the wind meant that anyone might have got to the mark first.
After an agonising period with virtually no wind, the race was again abandoned.
With no realistic prospect of a worthwhile breeze, racing was abandoned.

Only one race was completed, so the championship was void. Nevertheless, we
thank GWSC, and the Flying Fifteen fleet for giving us their time. An attempt
will be made to fit a replacement into the programme. (P.S. The event is
rescheduled for 6/7 November, at Grafham Water again, on the same weekend as
the Fireball event.)

Although disappointing because of the weather, the turnout was encouraging,
especially because there were a number of new members to the class, to whom we
extend a warm welcome, and several new boats. And thanks to those who came from
afar - worthy of special mention are Clive & Kenny from Scotland, Andrew &
Chris and Martin & Chris from North Wales, and no less than eight boats from
Burton SC.
