Lake McConaughy Labor Day Regatta

On Labor Day Weekend, seven 505s from Colorado, Minnesota, and Nebraska
descended upon Lake McConaughy for two days of hard racing. The most
experienced team, Dick Peck and Dick Hamilton, had nearly sixty years combined
experience in 505s. On the other end, this was the first 505 regatta for Chad
and Carolyn Price. Their boat, 5169 is 22 years old and looks almost new. Bags
and launchers were represented basically equally in the fleet.

Saturday, race 1, 2-4 kts of wind, windward-leeward course. The race got off to
a rocky start for Scott/Scott and Keating/Green when they were called over
early and had to go around the committee boat. In addition, the Scott’s had to
do circles for a pre-start penalty. Everyone went left looking for wind. Most
of us tried to point to the mark while the Scott’s, recovering from their start
chose to sail low. The move worked well for them as they rounded near the
front. At the first mark Peck/Hamilton had the lead followed by Kalnitsky/King
(usually King/Kalnitsky) and Scott/Scott. After rounding, Peck and Kalnitsky
headed back to the start line while the rest of us headed to the shore looking
for wind and the next mark. Helps to know where you’re going.

Who says the only good racing is at the front? While the leaders were going
about their business, now nearly a leg ahead of us, we were having tight racing
at the back. From windward to leeward, Smith/???, Keating/Green, and
Price/Price were having a tight down-wind battle. The Price’s, with their
gigantic Hyde spinnaker were able to work lower than the other two boats and
power away for a 250 yard lead at the leeward mark. After rounding the windward
mark in last, Keating/Green were able to out point the other two boats for a
fourth place finish. Peck/Hamilton, last year’s champs, showed dominating
speed, but were DSQ’d for crossing the start/finish line enroute to the leeward
mark. A second race attempt was lost to light air.

Sunday’s wind was white cap conditions, and courses were triangle,
windward-leeward, with the last race twice around.

In race two, Kalnitsky/King got a perfect start and were still leading the pack
coming back up the beat after the first run. Jib reaching to the next mark
worked well for them until the wind shifted, broadening the reach. Scott/Scott
hoisted first to pass them just before the gybe mark and hold the lead to the
finish. Keating/Green were sailing fast in third, but Peck/Hamilton luffed up
in response to another boat and Keating/Green could respond fast enough.
Needless to say they lost third place while doing circles. Joe Keating was
heard all the way up the next beat saying “I can’t believe Peck is so
competitive!” as well as other unprintable things.

Race three was a roller coaster ride for Keating/Green when they lost the
rudder three times in the race. After doing circles in the previous race, they
took it a step further and did circles with the spinnaker up and the rudder
off! In the process they tied the spinnaker in a knot AROUND the jib coming
into the last mark making the upwind beat to the finish a little interesting.
This allowed Price/Price, and Smith/???, to pass them.

Race four also proved interesting when the committee boat’s anchor drifted
forming a straight line from the leeward mark, through both finish marks, and
the windward mark too. It was unclear which side of the line to go through.
Scott/Scott went through the wrong way and had to re-trace their steps and
cross the line correctly. In the process, they lost first place to
Peck/Hamilton. Keating/Green were coming in alone in 4th and never thought to
look for the finish 50 yards from the leeward mark. Before they realized what
had happened Price/Price in 5169 and Smith/??? in 7347 were able to capitalize
on their confusion.

The breeze piped up for race five reminding us why we sail on McConaughy. There
were a lot of lead changes with boats going from third to first or from first
to third with Scott/Scott leading at the finish. I missed a lot of the action
while thinking heavy thoughts and trying to keep the boat flat. The gear toll
was high, especially for Price/Price in 5169. Their boom vang turned a beefy S
hook into a straight wire, they broke the wire bridle on the mainsheet, and
shredded the beautiful Hyde spinnaker that made them so fast on Saturday.

Everyone had a good time despite some slipups by the RC and we are all looking
forward to coming back next year.

Bill Green
