505 Mid Atlantic Championship Regatta
West River Sailing Club
September 13-14
Updated 9:18 AM on 9/17/97

A surprisingly large fleet - considering that the pre-pre-worlds would be the
following weekend in New England, and the container from the Denmark Worlds had
not yet returned - arrived at 5o5 Fleet 19's home, the West River Sailing Club,
for the 1997 Mid-Atlantics. Apart from a strong local contingent, teams from
Hampton Virginia, and our new Sandy Hook, New Jersey fleet participated.

The absence of the Worlds boats and the upcoming pre-pre-worlds also led to
some interesting pick up teams. Macy Nelson was brought in to drive Monty
Schumpert's boat, with Monty on the wire. Macy looked strangely at home in
8015, except for the jib tack being on the bow.... 8015 is identical in color
scheme to Macy's 8191, and in fact was Macy's boat prior to being sold to
Monty. Lauren Abramson and Tom O'Toole finally finished refinishing the seat
tanks on the Lindsay 505 they bought late last year. This was their second
regatta of the season, as the boat had not been in the water since the January
Midwinters in Florida. The boat is GORGEOUS! All the paint on the tanks was
removed, the tanks sanded down to fresh mahogany, and clear finished with epoxy
and a poly coat on top. The tanks look like NEW! What with his crew - and Fleet
19s fleet captain - having departed for Seattle, Ali Meller needed a
replacement. Fortunately one of Allan Johnson's last actions before getting on
the plane, was lining up Aussie expatriate Dave Stewart, a past 505, Aussie 16
foot skiff and UK 18 foot skiff sailor, to crew for Ali. Jonathan Phillips
recruited occasional crew Les Crane for the event, while Tom Price brought in
Chris Ryan - last seen in a 505 as a member of 505 Team New Zealand - to crew.
John Wyles hooked up with Allan Freedman, while Peter Mignerey recruited Josh
Sharp for his 505 debut. Steven Brown brought in Alex Turchi for his first 505
regatta.

The fleet included two female 505 sailors (Lauren Abramson and Betsy O'Brien),
two family teams; one married couple (the O'Briens) and one son-and-father team
(the Bretons); Dylon Breton is 16, but has been helming 505s at the national
and international level since he was 12. Ten of the 26 sailors at the event
were new to the 505 class in North America in the past year. Welcome to: Dave
Stewart, Lauren Abramson, Tom O'Toole, Tom Price, Allan Freedman, Josh Sharp,
Steven Brown, Alex Turchi, Fred Liesegang, and Dave Anderson.

Unfortunately, the weather was not very cooperative, and the RC and the 505
fleet got in three painfully light air races rather than the planned 6. In the
first race, Hampton Yacht Club 505 aces Jim Englert/Thad Melton won a first
beat long duel on the left side of the beat over Ali Meller/Dave Stewart to
lead at the weather mark, with Meller/Stewart and Jonathan Phillips/Les Crane
in pursuit. Englert/Melton opened up on the bottom of 2nd reach, while 2nd
opened up on 3rd as the wind went very light. Dave Stewart found a puff to the
right that put Meller/Stewart ahead at the next cross near the weather mark.
Meller/Stewart were able to put enough distance between themselves and
Englert/Melton to hold them off down the run. With the wind going lighter all

