Hyannis pre-pre-worlds
September 19-21

September 19-21, the Hyannis pre-pre-Worlds. This event was held at what
will be the site of the 1998 World Championship, at the same time of
year, for the competitors, race committee and event organizers to gain
experience with what will have to be done for the 1998 World
Championship. There were 21 505 teams at the event, though not all could
race on Friday. Eight races were scheduled.

Race 1 - Friday morning
Friday the fleet sailed out into fog which delayed the start of racing.
Once it cleared, the RC got off the first race in a light marginal
trapezing breeze. Ethan Bixby/Ali Meller and Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle were
going well in the conditions, leading at the weather mark and continuing
to pull away from the rest of the fleet. The breeze built for the second
triangle of the race, but at the last gybe mark the leaders were
informed that the race was over. Both teams were sailing a Worlds course
while the RC had set an Olympic course. Moore/Ikle had sailed through
 finish line without realizing they had finished - the RC did not fire
 a gun or blow a horn- and had continued while Bixby/Meller had not
 sailed through the line at all. DNF for Bixby/Meller and 1st place for
 Moore/Ikle.

Race 2
The breeze stayed up for the second race, which was a full trapezing and
depowering breeze for Bixby/Meller (160 lbs. each), and probably
marginal trapezing for everyone else. Gating late paid and Jonathan
Phillips/Les Crane led at the weather mark in a tight pack. Moore/Ikle
who had gated early were able to get by them on the first reach as the
fleet realized they were high of the gybe mark. The second reach was
quite tight and many teams two sailed it. At the leeward mark it was
Moore/Ikle, Phillips/Crane, Ken Elliott/Allen Kilgore, Bixby/Meller, and
Tim Collins/Bill Smith (racing their newly acquired Kulmar for the first
time). Bixby/Meller were able to leebow Elliott/Kilgore on the starboard
tack layline, but the fleet had closed up as the leaders had overstood
due to current. However, the top three positions held to the finish.
Fowler/Dyson tore their spinnaker, retired from the race, and sailed in
to get another. They returned just as.....

An attempt at a third race was abandoned as the fog filled in. Part of
the fleet tried to beat the fog in, while the more conservative members
chose to follow the RC in. Some of the former group found the Hyannis
Yacht Club without problem, while others had some interesting adventures
on the way in. Barry Kuehl/Frank Thomson were found on a beach a couple
of miles from the club and towed back, while Ken Elliott/Alan Kilgore
finally arrived back at the HYC several hours after everyone else, after
exploring Hyannisport (one Bay over), and going ashore to ask for
directions.... And get this! They were the pathfinder!

Race 3 - Saturday morning
It was colder and rather windier Saturday morning - the RC reported 26
knots with higher. A larger fleet (some teams could not race Friday, but
arrived Saturday morning) went out for the start. The racecourse was
close to shore in shallow water - not where the worlds will be raced
- and the waves were short and steep. Neal Fowler/Dave Dyson led at the
windward mark, and blasted down the first reach with the kite up. The
remainder of the pack held off as they could not see the mark. When the
mark was found, it was considerably higher than Fowler/Dyson were able
to sail, though they were able to drop the kite and close reach back up
to the mark, only losing one boat. Moore/Ikle led at the gybe mark with
Fowler/Dyson in second and a very light, very fast Bixby/Meller team in
third after passing four boats on the first reach. Bixby/Meller went
through Fowler/Dyson to leeward on the second reach, but Fowler/Dyson
quickly regained second place up the next beat. Moore/Ikle only just led
at the windward mark, and gybe set to head towards shore, while
Fowler/Dyson and Bixby/Meller did bear away sets and headed for the
other corner. At the leeward mark, Moore/Ikle were down to third.
Fowler/Dyson easily held on for the short beat to the finish, while
Bixby/Meller blew a tack and let Moore/Ikle power through into second.
Barry Kuehl/Frank Thomson were one of the fastest boats upwind in this
race, nearly leading at the weather mark, but lost some ground on the
reaches.

Several teams were casualties, as there was not enough water depth for
masts.

Race 4
No one tried to carry kites on the reaches in this race, but the boats
were very fast two sail reaching, with numerous place changes on the two
reaches. Phillips/Crane led early, but were down to third at the leeward
mark. A capsize down the run took them out of the top spots. Moore/Ikle
won.

The fog re-appeared cancelling racing for the day after two races. When
the casualties were tallied, there were 5 broken masts, I believe all
were due to turning turtle in the shallow water.

Sunday
Sunday was colder and may have been windier. The fleet rigged up and
lined up on the beach, with Kivney/Johnson being the first to launch and
blast off. However, the RC sent them in to wait, and then a little while
later cancelled for the day due to the conditions. This ended the series
at four races rather than the scheduled eight, and meant that all four
races would count. A number of teams that had been hoping for a throwout
were forced to count bad races, pulling them down, while consistency
paid off for Moore/Ikle, who won three of four races.


---------------

Hyannis Pre-Pre Worlds September 18-20

22 boats participated in a practice regatta designed to help sailors and
committee get tuned up, pumped up, and excited about next year's Worlds.
Conditions were challenging for the committee throughout the three day event
with 3 cancelled races due to fog and high wind. No races were held on Sunday
as a cold front passed through New England dropping the temperatures from near
80 for the first two days to the 50's for Sunday. Conditions were on the breezy
side for all races that were completed. Races were held in the "normal" race
circle about 2 miles off Hyannisport in Nantucket Sound, the same circle
utilized for the Hyannis Annual regatta. The committee will be moving the race
track further off shore for the Worlds for a couple of reasons: deeper water to
prevent post-capsize dismastings, and reduction of a slight bias towards the
shoreward side of the course on the upwind legs (depending on tide). "We'll
have you guys half way to Nantucket; don't you worry about that!" one committee
member was quoted as saying after racing one evening. The highlight of the
sailing was definitely the fast and tight two sail reaching (the second of
which were usually makeable with a chute) in 4-6 feet of choppy sea. For those
of us who have been around these boats for a while it was some of the best,
fastest sailing ever. Most races were kept as Modified Olympics with Worlds
angles on the reaches. Some of the top sailors were faked out in the first
race, missing the finish line because they assumed all races would be Worlds
courses. Although the races were shorter in time and distance, getting a number
of races in insured the committee would receive adequate practice setting
reaches and conducting gate starts, which for the most part were right on the
money. Once again the HYC members should be commended for an incredible effort
in some challenging conditions, including the cancellation of a race on Friday
as a thick, 20 foot visibility fog settled-in on the course. Valuable Lesson:
Don't throw away the sailing area chart after you read the instructions! You'll
need that compass rose! Those of you who don't will get to greet Joan Kennedy's
security detail on Squaw Island about three miles west of the harbor (true
story).

Oh, the racing...local Tyler Moore and old man Scott Ikle won the event
handily; after them the racing was very tight with a strong showing from the
Chesapeake contingent including Fleet 19's Johnathan Phillips and Les Crane and
Southern Bay's Kenney Elliot and Allen Kilgore. Canadians Hugh Morrin and
Michael Hoffman were runners-up to the local hero. Older men Tom Kivney and
Todd Johnson (combined age 120 or something...) sailed fast in the breeze and
captured fourth.
