Irish Open,
Monkstown Bay SC,
19/20 October 2002
by Rob Napier

Four British teams took the Swansea-Cork ferry with a four-boat trailer
to the Irish 505 Open, and received a fantastic welcome from the host
club, the Monkstown Bay SC. From the massive Irish breakfast in Liddy
and James O'Brien's home soon after arrival, through club meals,
seemingly endless rounds of drinks, free accommodation, generous prizes
for the visitors, and a sightseeing tour, the hospitality was boundless.

For club racing at MBSC there is a regular turnout of 10 or 12 boats
from the 14-boat fleet, mostly older boats (some of recognisable
provenance - ex- Towers, Edwards and Whittle amongst others) plus
a couple of modern boats. For the Open, club commodore Mike O'Brien lent
his boat (ex-Towers) to young Int. 14 sailors Peter Scannell and Mark
O'Donovan to join ten regular locals and the four visitors. Racing
commenced at noon when a light northerly set in, in the estuary close to
the club, where knowledge of the tidal flows and the wind behaviour over
the hills appeared to be important. In the event, those standing left in
accordance with local 'lore' seemed to lose out to those who simply
looked for the breeze and played the shifts. The visitors were leading
one, two, three, four until Berry/Walters fouled Thorne/Killeen and the
two boats got thoroughly tangled together. Williams/Edmunds led until
the last round when they fell into a windless patch allowing
Napier/Bristow through to win. More breeze in race 2 again saw
Williams/Edmunds leading, but pressed by Napier/Bristow they cut the
weather mark too fine, collected its mooring line on their centreboard,
and gave Napier/Bristow a second lucky win.

By race 3 a pleasant force 3 ENE breeze allowed race officer David Barry
to set a wider triangle down the estuary using navigation marks. The
strengthening flood tide made the weather mark a bit of a tide gate. The
505 fleet was joined by the October trophy handicap fleet, led by
a National 18, well sailed by the race officer's son Colin with Andrew
Moynihan and Paul Cotter as crew, who had a close tussle with
Napier/Bristow upwind and rounded in the lead. The 505s pulled away down
wind on the fine reaches, but were caught again on the next beat, by
then with Williams/Edmunds leading the 505s. Local lore favoured hugging
the left side to cheat the tide, but the wind that side was patchy, and
the right side seemed to be doing better. On the final beat
Berry/Walters took this to the logical conclusion, went hard right,
found a dramatic back-eddy and swept from third place into the lead,
denying Williams/Edmunds yet again.

On Sunday the forecast gales and pouring rain arrived in spades. A few
smaller boats in the dinghy park had to be rescued and tied back down,
then we set about another sizeable Irish breakfast while the storms
lashed outside. By mid-afternoon, racing long-since cancelled, there was
still no let-up in the rain and wind, and we had to reload the trailer.
In yet further generosity of spirit, four strong club stalwarts helped
us in this unpleasant task, all of us getting thoroughly soaked.

Overall, the visitors in their more modern boats took the honours, but
due credit must go to the leading Irish boats Peter Scannell & Mark
O'Donovan, Ewen Barry & Shane O'Connell and Mike O'Brien & Kieran
O'Leary, third equal, fifth and sixth respectively, who started
consistently and clung on well despite the handicap of smaller
spinnakers and less modern rigs.

A huge thanks to the commodore and members of Monkstown Bay SC and all
those who helped make it a memorable weekend. A visit next year is
already being planned, perhaps over a longer weekend and at a time when
more can go. An event not to be missed.

(3 races sailed out of 6; all 3 to count.)
