1997 International 505 Worlds Report
-Allan Johnson (probably biased misleading reporting, but Mike Martin gave me this assignment)
Reprinted from the Fall 1997 Tank Talk

The 1997 505 World Championship was held at Gilleleje Sejlklub, August 10-21,
1997 in Gilleleje Denmark. Gilleleje is a quiet fishing village about an hour
north of Copenhagen on the Kattegat sea. Nature, bikes and pedestrians rule
this part of the world, with only one stop light in town. An unhurried life
with nice people who welcome visitors to their special locale. The weather was
absolutely stunning! We were warned to bring drysuits, etc. My helm never even
wore a wetsuit on the water, I never wore a sweatshirt off the water.
Unfortunately this made for a light air regatta but most of the competitors
were stunned by the 85 degree days and 70 degree water.

I guess I should get to the racing part of the story, but I learned that a
World's is much more than a regatta. We were in Denmark for two weeks and it
was rad! A few other details worth mentioning: all of the competitors stayed in
the Gilleleje Holiday Center, a sprawling resort in the trees with gorgeous
views of the ocean. There were soccer fields (The Brits beat the Aussies and
Germans; The Aussies beat the Germans) tennis courts, swimming pools (The
Aussies beat the Brits at Water Polo) and cool six person houses complete with
all the amenities. The center was about 3 kilometers from the Sailing club,
which at first was a drag, but then everyone discovered rental bikes. And the
ride to town and the club was on the ridge overlooking the sea! Most of this
was in the information packet, but they could not describe how cool it would
be. Mike Mills kept saying

"This is just like college. We live in dorms, we all have bikes, we sail all
day, and party at night."

I must thank the regatta Sponsor, Tuborg Beer! Free beer and lunch after
everyday of racing. And last but not least: In the summer in Denmark, people
don't wear clothes! Can I be politically correct about this? No, I don't think
so....There were topless chicks everywhere! On shore postponements were cheered
by the Americans and we would go for long walks down the beach enjoying the
sight seeing.

On one particular day, two beautiful young girls were sunbathing topless
virtually in the boat park. Unbelievable! This free mentality struck the
competitors as well. Need to change into your sailing gear? No problem, drop
trousers and change right there, next to your boat. Denmark was Rad!

There was a pre-worlds on August 10,11,12. Two races a day in light air, no
races over ten knots, many in a fluky 5 knot southerly. Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle
almost won this regatta but placed second to the very fast Danish team of Hans
Jorgen Riber/Adam Malling. Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin were third and enjoyed a
nice meal in town for their efforts. The USA team was looking strong with Ali
Meller/Allan Johnson in eighth, Macy Nelson/Mike Mills in 14th and Terry
Neff/Bill Smith in 22nd. But no one really knew what the World's would be like,
since this was a light air flukefest and the cool guys like Team Sweden
(Krister Bergstrom 4 time World Champ sailing with Thomas Moss and Ebbe Rosen
sailing with Olle Wenrup) blew off several races.

Measurement of the eighty boats followed with two days of stress, sail cutting,
boatwork, or sightseeing (Unbelievable) in Sweden depending on your program. I
won't bore you with the details, ask the Aussies about Sweden.

Race one of the worlds was won by the fast Danes Riber/Malling. Bergstrom/Moss
were second. Mark Upton-Brown/Ian Mitchell third. Top Americans were
Meller/Johnson in 8th. Current [1996]World Champions Paul Towers/Dan Johnson
were 43rd. This was a tough fleet.

Race two and Hamlin/Martin take over, winning the race in a duel with
Upton-Brown/Mitchell. Ebbe Rosen/Olle Wenrup finish fourth. These three teams
will see a lot of each other in the ensuing days as Rosen/Wenrup, Hamlin/Martin
start well and sail consistently to always be in the top group with
Upton-Brown/Mitchell charging up through the fleet.

The attempted start of Race three will be talked about for some time. It was
very light air, difficult to maneuver and a suspect decision to try starting
the race. The rabbit was Tom Bojland/Anders Friis. I don't have all of the
details, but the facts remain that Hamlin/Martin hit or were hit by the guard
launch. The penalty is immediate DSQ. There were several protests regarding the
situation: 1) Hamlin/Martin were forced into the situation by a boat without
rights. 2) The race should not have been started. 3)They were a pack of boats
protesting each other. In the end the RC decided it should not have attempted
the race, and the contact was unavoidable and minor. No DSQ's rendered.

When Race three is restarted in the late afternoon in a nice ten knot easterly,
Hamlin/Martin lead at all marks and win convincingly. They are protested by the
rabbit Tom Bojland, but the results stand. Former World Champ Ian Barker with
Paul Young finish second. Wolfgang Hunger [twice 470 World Champion] and Holger
Jess finish third. Hamlin/Martin are winning the regatta with a 9,1,1.

Race 4 is abandoned with no wind in the forecast. The competitors cheer after
three light air races. Under an amendment to the 505 class rules, most sailors
think this will now be a 6 race series instead of seven. Lots of people go to
Sweden, Copenhagen or the beach.

When Race 4 is sailed, it is a battle between the eventual top four boats, with
Rosen/Wenrup winning, Upton-Brown/Mitchell second, Hamlin/Martin third,
Hunger/Jess 4th and (this is not a typo) Meller/Johnson 5th.

On the second to last day of the regatta there are grumblings in the boat park
that the RC will attempt two races that day in the effort to get a 7 race
series. This is interpreted by the class officers as a breach of the 505 class
rules and they attempt to reason with the RC to hold only one race.

The RC believes that Race 4 ( or whatever number it is now, eventually race 6)
was not abandoned but postponed and it is their right to run it. Sailors leave
the boat park not knowing how many races will be sailed that day. [ ]

Race 5 is won by Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle, coming back from a disappointing 18th
in race 4. Finishing second is Hunger/Jess, in third is Rosen/Wenrup, 4th goes
to Hamlin/Martin and in 5th Meller/Johnson. Upton-Brown/Mitchell sail their
throwout 10th. At this time it is any one of four teams regatta to win or lose.
A good time to go ashore and plan the strategy for tomorrow, but the RC states
that race 6 will start at 4:00 p.m. The weary competitors sail slowly downwind.
Only one boat puts their chute up.

At the start of Race 6 the breeze is on. Well, maybe not on, but the best we
have seen at around ten to 12 knots. Towers/Johnson show that this is their
condition, sailing well and winning the race easily. They will end up posting
four scores in the 40's for the regatta. This is a tough fleet.

In second is Upton-Brown/Mitchell and third is Bergstrom/Moss. Rosen/Wenrup and
Hamlin/Martin finish 9th and 10th respectively putting Upton-Brown/Mitchell in
the lead for the title. Meller/Johnson protest the RC for running the race
despite finishing 8th. Their argument is that it was sailed not in accordance
with the class rules. Nelson/Mills have a protest requesting redress, as they
were fouled at the start. Hamlin/Martin have a protest against a German team.
Ian Barker is heard to say "Are all of the Americans protesting because of too
much wind??" All protests are dismissed. The sailors have been on the water for
more than eight hours. Race seven will start at 10:00 am the next morning.

Race Seven begins in a 12 knot and building southerly, the first real breeze we
have seen. It is either the Swedes, the Brits, or the Americans regatta to win.
Hamlin/Martin are the rabbit. The race is sailed rather close to shore with (as
it turned out) big righties with velocity coming from the shore. The early
gaters get hosed, the rabbit should have been golden, but I'm guessing
Hamlin/Martin chose to be conservative and go to the middle rather than
continue to the shore. Early on in the race it is looking good for Rosen/Wenrup
as they are in the top group and Upton-Brown/Mitchell and Hamlin/Martin are in
the teens. As the race progresses, it is Bergstrom/Moss in the lead with
Rosen/Wenrup on their heels. These Swedish teams keep it going for the rest of
the race finishing 1st and 2nd respectively. If Rosen/Wenrup had won the race,
or their fellow countryman had let them through, they would be world champions.
As it turned out they ended up second with Upton-Brown/Mitchell's 7th place
giving them the victory, with Hamlin/Martin's 9th securing them third.

Prize presentation was held at Kronburg Castle, the inspiration for
Shakespeare's Hamlet, and the house of Danish nobility. The 5o5ers had the
whole castle to themselves and prizes were handed out in this great huge hall
by none other than the great Paul Elvstrom.
