Santa Cruz 505 Regatta
July 17-18, 1999
Santa Cruz, CA
Reported by Eric Willis

Nine 505’s descended on Santa Cruz this last weekend for two days of
great racing in the beautiful California sunshine. Conditions on
Saturday ranged from 15-20 knots in the solid Santa Cruz westerly that
presented powerful reaches and exciting upwind legs. Sunday was a little
bit lighter, typically 12-15 knots that provided close tactical racing.

Jim Wondeleck and Jay Kuncl driving their old Woody walked away with the
series with five firsts. Eric Willis and Wendy Herzberg took second by
sailing consistently, just squeaking out the teams of Terry Nuff/Bobby
Noise, and Douglas Hagan/Kirk Wilson who tied for third. Terry and Bobby
sailed so solidly, that when Bobby missed the trapeze ring and wound up
in the water on one of the upwind legs, Bobby swam for the boat like he
was doing an Olympic 50m freestyle and recovered without losing any
significant ground. Bobby doesn’t look like a competitive swimmer, but
he was showing great form on Sunday (just kick harder and breathe every
stroke).

Pascal Bruyere and Chi, easily the lightest team at the regatta, hung on
with their teeth in the breeze to finish fifth. Dave Wahle lived up to
all expectations as the guerilla race committee by flying the black flag
on the first race. This caused several teams to be DSQ’d for being over
early, most notably Bruce Edwards and David Byron who had walked away
with race #4 (don’t get too greedy boys).

Keep the PCC’s on your calendar for the weekend of September 10 and 11
in Santa Cruz. This promises to be a great regatta with a large turnout
expected, t-shirts, prizes, etc.

Lame Excuses for Not Showing: (everyone’s favorite)

- Dave Shelton: sailing keelboats in LA with his fiancée for the second
  week in a row (lame lame lame!)
- Jeff Miller: hopped up on caffeine in local coffeehouse with a good
  book
- Bryan Largay and Matt Sanders: experimenting with subsistence farming
  in Ben Lomond
- Tom Cook: working out a better system for adjusting rake and shroud
  tension simultaneously while driving from the wire
- Howie and Mike: won the worlds, now working on golf game
- Larry Tuttle, building new 505’s (OK, that’s cool)
- Robin Brown: Bruce Edwards wouldn’t have his boat ready and rigged for
  him
- Bruce Edwards (Saturday): shoveling horseshit for his wife

