Bristol Spring 1999
May 22 & 23, 1999
Bristol, RI
By Tim Collins
Updated 28 May, 1999


What a great weekend of racing!! Joe Winston & the Bristol Yacht Club
hosted a fantastic event for the 505 Class, A-Class Catamarans, and even
a Tornado. Seventeen races were run over the two day regatta averaging
45 min - 1 hour in length. The 505's completed 7 races; 5 Gold Cup and
2 Modified Worlds (finish on the second reach) while the A-Class sailed
10 races; all Windward/Leeward (2 laps). Sailing on the same course, the
two fleets really complemented each other, only crossing tacks or gybes
occasionally. With that said, sailing with the A-Class Cats in the
future should be avoided, as many of the 505 sailors took rides on the
A-Class after racing Sat. and came in with perma-grins like the ones you
get after a great three sail reach in a 505.

Bristol Conditions:
Saturday: S 15-18 kts. Sunny, Air temp: 73 Water temp: 55 Does it get any better?
Sunday: SE 5-15 kts. Periods of rain in the 60's (Sounds worse than it was)

To sum up the racing.....the Bass Master's kicked ass! Dave Dyson and
Neal Fowler won all seven 505 races with conviction, rarely trailing at
any mark, only Mark McCarthy and Chris Yindra could hold them off for
a complete triangle, getting passed on the final run of the final race
on Sun to place a close second. New faces included: Matt Sovis (Senior
in HS, Marblehead, MA) crewed for Barry, is hot on the trail to buying
a boat, most likely by RIISA & Chad Atkins (Rochester, NY) came down to
Bristol three days prior to the event and camped out in the BYC parking
lot rigging a "hand me down" Lindsay he got from Doug Mclean. Quote of
the weekend from Tom Kivney, "I sailed that boat 20 years ago in
Germany", Doug apparently had stripped it clean to refinish it, but
never got that far. As you would imagine, Chad got a ton of help from
Tom and Dave and should be sailing at RIISA. Chad was last seen heading
out of the BYC parking lot heading for Barrington to continue his
efforts.

Many thanks to Lisa and Liz who provided the food for great dinner
(Chili, burritos, etc.) Sat evening over my house, and to Guck Inc. for
providing the cold refreshments. The Bristol Spring has been a floating
annual event in the past but it looks like the BYC will be committed to
running the event for years to come on this same weekend, the weekend
before Memorial day...so put it on the calendar for 2000.
