http://www.sailing.org/int505/usa/events/99carlmillerrep.htm

Crew's Rule the Carl Miller October 3, 1999

The 1999 Carl Miller Regatta turned out to be a one-day event for the 505's. We
sailed on Sunday, unfortunately missing the bigger breeze the day before (Ed.
due to collective burnout from the East Coast Championship the weekend before,
the fleet decided to race one day only, and picked Sunday). It was still a
gorgeous day on the bay with cool temperatures and a gentle Southeaster at
about 5 to 6 knots. Four boats turned out for some nice, low-key sailing which
pitted crews Allan Freedman and Jesse Falsone on the helm with Rene and Barney
trying there luck at the crew spot. See Jesse's 1996 article on switching
positions in the boat at http://sailing.org/int505/switch01.htm. Luckily for
Barney and Rene the wind was light and no trapezing was necessary. Ali Meller
and Stephan Von Klaudy (getting back into 505s after many years off!) sailed
Ali's beautiful new KISS Rondar. Ali had some expensive champagne on hand for
the event. Barney and Jesse offered to christen the boat with the bottle. Steve
Lieberman sailed his newly painted Waterat with ??? Macy showed up to sail but
his crew didn't. A few other boats were no-shows, probably a little burned out
from last weekend (we had a great East Coast Championship at SSA last weekend.

Here's the synopsis of the racing. Ali/Stephan and Jesse and Barney tacked on
each other all day. Ali/Stephan won race 1 after a great pin end start and
slamming Team Spot a few times. Allan and Rene staged a great comeback to move
temporarily into second on the last beat, but couldn't hold it on the run.
Steve was in there for awhile, but is still sorting out rig/sail and new crew
issues. One of the fast bag boat guys should help Steve with the numbers (Ali
and Rene).

Jesse and Barney won race 2, leading all around, but with Ali and Stephan
always close. The theme of the day on Team Spot was "tack on Ali". It was
actually pretty tight at the start with Team Etienne sailing fast at the boat
and Lieberman coming close to rolling Spot. This time the current punched Ali
out at the pin.

All that TESOD driving experience paid off for Jesse in the last race (we had
to have a last race since there was a tie). Jesse and Barney forced Ali and
Stephan over at the start and jumped out front. Leading around the course, Team
Spot took every opportunity to tack on Ali, making it fun for all. Ali
complained about not having a ram-up control on the new boat, but it was
satisfying for Team Spot nonetheless after their crushing defeat by
Meller/Lockwood at the ECCs.

We got a tow back in, arriving at WRSC before all the 470's who came in after
race 2.

Ali's new KISS Rondar looks fantastic! A new 505 is a thing of beauty, and one
like this for $12K with sails is even better. Fleet 19 would like to welcome
Stephan back to 505 sailing.

Results from WRSC web site

- Jesse Falsone

Late Breaking Developments
Fast and loose talk by some of the participants in the Carl Miller has prompted
what appears to be a full scale crew revolt in fleet 19, with the International
505 Crews Union being called upon to support fleet 19 crews. A full report is
on this website.

http://www.sailing.org/int505/usa/events/99carlmillercrewrevolt.htm

Labor Unrest in Fleet 19

As was reported in the Carl Miller Regatta write up, two teams swapped places
in the boat. This led to some unfortunate posturing by the two skipper/owners
concerned, which prompted a response from some Fleet 19 crews. At this time it
appears that the International 505 Class Crew's Union is being called upon to
backup the Fleet 19 crews concerned. The following are from the fleet 19 e-mail
listserver.

Rene de la Rie (skipper/owner of 8085)

Barney:

You and I committed acts of benevolent charity when we allowed our proletarian
crews a glimpse of the privileged class end of the 505. Now we must send these
tragic members of society's great unwashed back to their work - to toil and
sweat in the bilges while we, the ruling class, sip our cognac and make
executive level decisions of great importance amidst luxuriously comfortable
surroundings.

Rene de la Rie

Jesse Falsone (crew on 8643)

This message from Rene truly exemplifies the pompous attitude of the 505 driver
aristocracy. This is precisely the foundation from which the "505 Crew's Union"
was originally chartered in the 1960's. I suggest that, as an act of good faith
to the downtrodden crews, one regatta each season be designated a "Trading
Places" regatta. Regular crews must drive and regular drivers must crew! If the
drivers do not meet our demands, I suggest a full on revolt! Crew's Union
unite!

Jesse Falsone

Barney Harris (Team Spot, owner/driver of 8643)

The cultured response: (Ed. some spelling, capitalization and grammar
corrected)

Who do these pond scum think they are? This is the difficulty of permitting
these poor, wretched souls a glimpse of our world. It is unfair to show them
this better life - one which those lacking the proper intellectual DNA can
never hope to aspire [to]. In the future it is probably best to keep these
primates to what they know and nothing else, lest we have a planet of the apes
like uprising.

Barney Harris

Dave Anderson (crew on 8645)

No need to trade places, just on a really screaming 3 sail reach, unhook and
jump off.

Dave Anderson

Fiona Lockwood (crew on 8263)

I feel I am recently well qualified to add comment to this one......As Ali
found out, the prospect of finishing a race once your crew has jumped (fallen)
off on said screaming 3 sail reach is less tempting, even if it's the finish
coming up.

A further addition to Dennis's Portuguese quote is some Latin....if any of the
helms out there are sufficiently highbrow to deal with it.

My school motto was 'Semper ad Lucem' - always towards the light.

[Ed. Fiona, surely you jest! After all, we are [mostly] Americans, and have no
clue about Latin or any other language except American. However, we will try to
say the above slowly and very loudly and see if that works for us...]

Helms of the 505 class be grateful that we crew are here still trying to
enlighten you about which is the business end of a 5-oh, even though you're not
the brightest bunch to educate on this fact...and remember you just point the
things the right way, we DRIVE them!

Long live the Crews' Union

Fiona Lockwood

Bill Green (crew & skipper, owner of 7204)

I couldn't agree with Barney more! Drivers really do live a difficult life and
we crew should take pity on them occasionally and allow them the glory of the
front end of the boat. My hat is off to Barney, it is not often that a driver
realizes and admits to their inferiority. They aren't as clever as they think
they are (the DNA issue Barney mentioned), and to some degree suffer from a
mushroom situation (keep them in the dark and feed them...) insofar as we, the
crew, only feed them the information their feeble brains can handle and filter
out the rest.

Three times in the last three regattas one team nearly threw fists when the
crew attempted to keep boat speed going when the wind died or fixed something
about to cause a problem. On later examination of the situation it was
determined the crew was doing things faster and before the driver realized they
were a problem.

I am still attempting to learn to sail a boat and swapped places with my driver
for a couple races on Sunday. I haven't achieved Supercrew status like Jesse,
but at least I have the basics down. After every set/jibe/douse I had to go
forward and change/set twings and pole height. And this guy was a collegiate
sailor!

I think this is a situation where we need to look to the wisdom of Will Hartje
as he has had ample time at both ends of the boat to make an educated decision.
In an email (don't remember if it was to 505world or to me) regarding the the
1997 NAs, he said "I was able to return to crewing as I didn't have the
requisite frontal lobotomy when I became a skipper."

Bill Green
