Richmond Regatta

The Richmond regatta was sailed in a variety of conditions ranging from
0-20 knots. Great sailing in mostly fully powered up conditions. The
first race started out in about 5-8 with the left side being favored.
The young buck came away with a win in this race as he started out left
and worked his way out in front by the first mark. The second race
started of in a little lighter conditions which died throughout the
race. At the leeward mark it had completely shut off with 5 boats vying
for the win. As the breeze died and the fleet condensed, one lone boat
went right while the other top boats went left, which was where the
breeze was coming from the whole day. Well, the breeze shifted from west
to north as it filled back in; you can do the math from there but I want
to congratulate Jeff Miller for rolling his lucky dice and coming out in
the lead. The breeze continues to fill as the next race started in about
15 and picked up to 20 at the end of the race.

The breeze was on which made challenging, impossible to carry the chute
on the second reach. As everyone doused, the Santa Cruz boys were in the
lead and there to stay.  After the race a few boats stayed out for
a killer heavy air tuning session. Thanks for all who stayed out. The
next day started early and the conditions stayed the same all day, about
10 knots of breeze, fully powered up. The breeze was a little more
shifty this day where it wasn't always favored to bang a corner, except
the first race when the Martin/Bordow team came out of the left corner
(the skipper/crew team had too much talent on their boat, who was
driving again). Anyway, Robin rounded first and hung on to first until
the San Fran current allowed Martin to sneak in there at the leeward
mark, giving him the first. More good racing to follow with a Worlds
course for the next race. The young buck team fended of Martin/Bordow to
take the win. This set the stage for the last race as it was close,
within a point, to see who won the series. It promised to be a good last
race and it was!

Seven or eight boats were within 5 boatlengths coming into the last
leeward mark with Eric and Wendy winning. Martin was second but tried to
squeeze it in there at the mark, whoops-current, and ended up hitting
the mark. Ooops!  Maybe not enough tiller time -eh Martin.

(The eh- was for all the Canadians who raced) With a tight race at hand
the rule-abiding fleet made sure Mr. Martin did his circle and the race
was on. The young buck was ahead at this point but only just ahead and
he needed to put a boat in-between him and Mr. Martin. A few well placed
tacks and a little help from Mother Nature (and a flogging jib) and the
series was won. I'd like to thank Richmond YC for hosting a splendid
event, all the travelers who made it and all the competitors for making
it such tight racing.

Remember, the Stanford regatta is in late June; So all those who aren't
going to NA's or the Worlds have no excuse not to show up!  You don't
want to be on my Lame excuses column for that regatta- TRUST ME!

Seya
Andy Beeckman

Have a great day!
