Dyson / Fowler Continue to Dominate New England Scene

Dateline: Buzzards Bay

The team of Dave Dyson and Neal Fowler (combined age in the upper 80s)
continue their unbeaten streak in 1999 New England events, winning the
coveted Kivney Bowl AKA: 1999 New England Championships in New Bedford,
MA. The Kivney Bowl (donated by Thomas Kivney Sr., father of Gerard and
Tom) was originally introduced in 1970. Bill Peaver, first recorded
winner of the trophy, promptly returning it (29 years later) this
spring.

Just a beautiful weekend of 505 racing; lots of new faces, competitive
racing, great Race Committee and fantastic weather. Sat. SW 15-22 kts.,
temps on shore in the 90s, Bill Smith and Tim Collins took advantage of
a broken trapeze handle on the Falsone / Harris craft to take the first
of three races, if not for the breakdown Falsone and Harris probably
would have won all three. Thank you Fleet 19 and lone Canadian entry of
Molimard / Bertrand for supporting the New England Championships.

Sun. SW 6-12 kts., temps on shore in the 90s again, Saturdays leaders,
Dave Dyson and Neal Fowler posted wins in race 4 & 5, to take a one
point lead into Race 6. As rabbit, Falsone / Harris lead the final race
wire to wire, leaving Dyson / Fowler and Smith / Collins to battle it
out for the regatta, both rounding 5th & 6th respectively at the first
windward mark. By the bottom mark Dyson / Fowler had sealed it making
their way in to 2nd to take the 2nd running of the Kivney Bowl.

New boat owners racing their first 505 regatta included: Tom Hurwitch
& Russell Robinson, The Ferrarone Bros., Steve & Josh Lieberman, and
Chad Atkins & local crew in the repo and re-build of Doug Mcleans car
wreck. Chad has done a beautiful job restoring (with a little help from
GUCK, INC. and friends) the 18 year old Lindsay.

Special thanks to Neal Fowler and the New Bedford Yacht Club for hosting
the regatta and more importantly, Dave Bittle and crew for running six
perfect one hour races with minimal wait time in between. Region
I Social Coordinator Bill Smith initiated all new comers providing the
beer, daily prizes, and tall tales following Saturday's racing.

Further Comments provided by Bill "Swoop" Smith

The 1999 Kivney Bowl-Buzzards Bay offered two days of excellent 505
racing, breeze between 15- 25 knots on Saturday and 5- 13 knots on
Sunday. The 15 boat fleet engaged in battle for 6 races throughout the
weekend, 5 Oylmpics and 1 Worlds course. Many thanks to New Bedford and
Race Committee for managing reggatta, Tim Collins and Niel Fowler for
organizing the event. Thanks to Tom Kivney for finding the Kivney Bowl
505 New England Chanmpionships after Bill Peaver last won the bowl in
1970 and all his support helping the 505 class continue to grow.

In the parking lot on Saturday morning the following cast of characters
were present old faces with old boats, old faces/ new boats and new
faces/ rebirth of old boats.

Key: Real age, 505 age / boat age.

Aged, Old/ faster with age: Niel Fowler, Dave Dyson 8083 BASS MASTER.
Wolf Chamberlain / Tom Kivney, 8194 KATY BEAR.
Les Crane / Rene Delarie 8085

Young, spirited Youth/ Fresh from the mold: Jesse Falsone, Barney Harris
8643 TEAM SPOT.

Bill Smith/Tim Collins 8627 THE PUMP

Young & aged, Old / Virgin: Art Gleason / Macy Nelson, 8722. Check out
Macy's new number, boat looks exactly the same, Light blue with blue
waterline.

Young, no longer rookies/ has been around the block: Rick Thompson
/ Dave Smith 8013, 1st to top mark in 2 races, well done.

Young, young/ This boat was debowed at Worlds by Kenny Elloit, take
a look at Worlds web page to see 505 without bow: Molimard / François
Bertrand 8233

Young, Welcome to 505 racing/ ready to race: Alex Ross / Ward Cromwell
8689.

Tom Hurwitch / Russell Robinson, 8266. A new Waterat to NE.

Young, Youthful/ ready to race: Chris Tackas / Andrew Crocker 9.

John Doe / Chris Yindra 8311

Young, Welcome to 505 racing/ Rebirth: Brother Ferrarone / Ted Ferrarone
7839. Josh Lieberman / Steve Lieberman 7873. Local John Doe / Chad
Atkins 7604.

After Racing on Saturday everyone was exhausted, the 2 thirty packs of
Bud on ice, helped the stories of the day grow and wind increased from
15- 25 to 25- 35. During this causal after racing debrief, a few veteran
crews and skippers held court to help everyone get through the corners
upright and keep the boats together. New Bedford served a cheeseburger,
fries and Bud dinner to the fill the sailors for the next day.

The Racing: Action was tight for the lead up to the end with three
boats, THE BASS MASTER, TEAM SPOT and THE PUMP all within, 2 points of
each other after race 5 going into race 6. TEAM SPOT was fortunate to be
the rabbit for race 6, thus first to the favored right side of the
course. The PUMP and BASS MASTER jockeyed for position before the race
and off the rabbit THE PUMP was bow out, forcing the BASS MASTER to tack
right early, THE PUMP followed right. The right was the way to go. TEAM
SPOT came out of the right side with the lead, the BASS MASTER edged in
front of THE PUMP on the way out of the right side. All important Race
6 ended with THE BASS MASTER 2nd in race 6, Champions of the regatta by
keeping THE PUMP (chumps) 3rd in race 6, tied in points with TEAM SPOT
1st in race 6, winning the tie breaker for 2nd overall.

