http://www.sptimes.com/News/11199/Sports/Fresh__familiar_preva.html

Fresh, familiar prevail

Recognizable names lead International Canoe and Flying Dutchman, but a new team wins the 505.
By DORAN CUSHING

© St. Petersburg Times, published January 11, 1999

For Lin Robson and Bill Beaver, the midwinter Flying Dutchman and
International Canoe class championships in St. Petersburg have become
a ritual of winning.

With their performances over the weekend, St. Petersburg's Robson has
won the one-design event three of the past four years in the Flying
Dutchman class, and Annapolis sailor Beaver has won the International
Canoe class twice in three years.

For Virginia-based Barney Harris and Jesse Falsone, though, the St.
Petersburg midwinter championship brought a first. They won the highly
competitive 505 class, in which they have raced together for more than
three years."We had a couple of lucky breaks, and we paid attention to
who we had to beat in the points in the final two races," skipper Harris
said.

Harris and Falsone ensured victory by finishing second to the runner-up
team of Macy Nelson and Peter Alarie in the closing race of the series.
Harris and Falsone were two points ahead in the final standings. Ethan
Bixby of St. Petersburg and crew Scott Ikle finished third overall,
never placing lower than third in the two-day event.

Robson, racing his Flying Dutchman with crew Serge Jorgensen of
Sarasota, posted six wins in the seven-race series and finished nine
points ahead of Paul Hemker and Gary Schwantz of New Paris, Ohio.

Finishing two points behind Beaver, Ted Van Dusen of Carlisle, Mass.,
won the closing race and a tiebreaker for second place in International
Canoe.

Hosted by the St. Petersburg Yacht Club, the January racing venue on
Tampa Bay has always attracted top Northern sailors in each class of
lightweight dinghy. Even with temperatures in the 50s, warmer water and
10- to 18-knot winds provided fast, wet and challenging conditions,
though Friday's opening day of races was canceled for lack of wind.

All boats raced on a course just east of The Pier, with separate starts
for each class.
