Hampton Trapeze
A High Wind in the Chesapeake
Updated 29 July, 1999

While the Chesapeake Bay's reputation for light air is well deserved,
sometimes it does blow! The 1999 Hampton Trapeze, held May 15-16 at
Hampton Yacht Club, was one of those occasions.

Sailors arrived in Hampton Friday night to a Fireball/505 party at the
Amthor's (the Barb/Henry Amthor variety) - the event was also the
Fireball US Nationals. Anyone who wanted a place to stay was able to
sack out at either Barb/Henry's place, or Sarah/Doug's.

Saturday morning the breeze was whistling through the rigging at HYC. On
the water it was 25 to 35 knots, with very steep chop/waves coming down
the bay - Survival conditions. Cloudy and cold. The Hampton One Design
and the Mobjack Classes were no shows, choosing not to race, while
a rather reduced 505 class launched (two 505s that were to be raced by
pick up teams never launched all weekend).

The Hampton Flats (Hampton Roads area) is quite shallow, and with breeze
from 020 coming off the land, a short steep chop had formed, making
sailing very challenging.

Ali Meller/Craig Coltharpe turtled near the committee boat before the
start, and came up with a broken mast. Two more of the six serious 505s
sailed in rather than race in those conditions. The RC set a long
Olympic course with 1 mile beats.

Barney Harris/Jesse Falsone were going fast in the conditions, and led
at the weather mark, but chose not to fly a kite on the first reach.
Trailing at the weather mark, Henry and Douglas Amthor went for the kite
- the only 505 to do so all Saturday - and started to close.
Harris/Falsone dumped at the gybe mark, while Amthor's blew the halyard
to get up to the mark. With the chance for the lead there for the
taking, Amthor's landed the gybe, but had neglected to re-hoist the
kite, and sailed over it. In short order Harris/Falsone were up and off,
and it took Amthor's so long to untie the kite and get it back in the
boat, that they were far behind not only Harris/Falsone but Latane
Montague/Robert Montague. That order held to the finish, despite
Harris/Falsone dumping again. The RC chose not to run any more races in
the conditions, and remaining competitors gratefully sailed in.

"Those were the most challenging conditions I have ever sailed 505s in",
said race winning crew Jesse Falsone. Henry Amthor loaned Ali Meller
a spare mast, allowing Meller/Coltharpe to race on Sunday.

Sunday morning saw a little less breeze, down in the 20-25 knot range,
with the shallow-water-chop not as bad as Saturday; it was cloudy and
cold until the end of final race.

The RC set Olympic courses with not-very-tight reaches - a classic 505
gybe mark would have been in even shallower water - which made it
difficult to stay fully powered up on the reaches, despite the wind
strength. We were tempted to switch to the big kite we were carrying in
the starboard bag, but never actually did so.

to take the race. Harris/Falsone were 2nd, the Amthors 3rd, the
Montagues 4th, Rene de la Rie/Allan Freedman 5th, and Gary Bodie/Ken
Elliott (Yup, that Gary Bodie) 6th.

Harris/Falsone got a great start at the RC boat in the next race and
sailed away to take the race. Meller/Coltharpe were 2nd, with the
Amthors 3rd and the Montagues 4th again. Bodie/Elliott switched places
with de la Rie/Freedman, finishing 5th to de la Rie/Freedman's 6th.

After approaching from astern, sailing through Harris/Falsone's lee just
before the start, and squeezing them after the gun, Meller/Coltharpe
took the start and led led most of the way around the next race, with
Harris/Falsone closing on the run when Meller/Coltharpe doused early and
gybed twice, to get the spinnaker down into the port bag. This set up
a last beat high speed tacking duel, with Harris/Falsone footing off
trying to break through, and Meller/Coltharpe trying to match every
move. Harris/Falsone's cleaner tacking was getting them closer and
closer, and they almost nabbed Meller/Coltharpe but the latter survived
the leg and led at the finish by a boatlength.

Despite having run three races in hard conditions, the RC chose to run
a fourth race on Sunday (for a total of five for the event). The fifth
race would allow one throwout, and meant that Meller/Coltharpe could
throw out their first race DNC and would be tied with Harris/Falsone
with two firsts and a second to count.

Since both teams were able to do this simple arithmetic, the stakes were
high for the start of the final race. Harris/Falsone approached from
astern and overlapped Meller/Coltharpe to leeward. Both teams
accelerated toward the pin, with Meller/Coltharpe trying to break the
overlap and Harris/Falsone seeking to keep it so they could force
Meller/Coltharpe over early. Both teams got to the pin too soon, and
both tacked to port towards the oncoming starboard tackers, with
Meller/Coltharpe now on Harris/Falsone's tail.

Both teams crash tacked to avoid the starboard boats, and when the spray
had settled, Harris/Falsone were in dirty air and forced to tack, while
Meller/Coltharpe barely managed to avoid being squeezed out by Amthors
to leeward and being sailed over by Montagues to windward, and emerged
in clear air going hard left. With Harris/Falsone going hard right,
Meller/Coltharpe tacked to cover, letting the Amthors hit the left
corner by themselves. The port tack drag race parallel with the shore
was anyone's race as with breeze off the shore it was shifty and puffy
(and blowing over 20 knots with rather higher puffs!). After trading
tacks three quarters of the way up the beat with the Amthors ahead,
Meller/Coltharpe leebowed the Amthors on the starboard tack layline and
rounded first with Amthors overlapped, and Harris/Falsone 3rd. The RC
had reset the gybe mark for the last race, providing two tight reaches.
The Amthors got the better hoist and were able to roll Meller/Coltharpe.
Part way down the leg, a monster puff came through forcing all three
teams to bear off well below the rhumb line. Being lowest,
Meller/Coltharpe chose to blow the spinnaker halyard and two sail reach
back up, but were unable to re-hoist at the gybe mark due to a kite
tangle. Meanwhile the puff died and both the Amthors and Harris/Falsone
were able to get back up to the gybe mark, carrying their kites.
Meller/Coltharpe had a slow gybe and took some time straightening out
the kite allowing the Amthors and Harris/Falsone to escape, and putting
the Montagues in 3rd.

The Amthors led at the leeward mark,while Harris/Falsone muffed the
douse and dumped! They recovered quickly and set off in pursuit of the
Amthors. The Amthors led at the weather mark but went shrimp trawling
with their kite at the hoist, allowing Harris/Falsone through.
Meller/Coltharpe had worked back to 3rd and closing but were unable to
get back into range. Harris/Falsone won easily, with Amthors second,
Meller/Coltharpe 3rd and Montagues 4th.

This gave the regatta to Harris/Falsone, their 3rd win in a row since
the midwinters.

As always, the Hampton YC was a very friendly venue for the racers and
as always, the Hampton YC RC ran great races. While US Sailing Rules
Committee chairman Rob Overton was on the RC boat, and ready to lead
a protest committee, there were no protests - as usual. If we are going
to participate in multi-class events, racing with other
spinnaker/trapeze boats means we get better courses, and less waiting
between races.



Jesse Falsone's Notes/Trivia:

- Ali and Craig's combined age is over 90!
- Amthor's price for an old Proctor D (a UK spar bought used by
  Madahaven before he sold 8012 to Henry, and sort of re-rigged to US
  specs) if damaged on Sunday - $700.
- Barney's blood alcohol content on Saturday night - 0.35.
- Guest appearance - Gary Bodie sailing with Kenny Elliott.
- Overheard when the PRO asked Gary if we should race on Saturday
- "We're a bunch of 40 year old men, we're fat and out of shape. We
  wouldn't mind if you postponed or canceled." Race 1 was postponed for
  30 minutes and started just after Ali broke his rig near the committee
  boat.
- Overheard - Henry McCray busting on the 505 for being too heavy,
  comparing it to a Snipe. Number of times Henry McCray sailed his 505
  in a regatta over the past three years - zero.
- Team Ettienne's new beverage of choice - salt water.
- Macy's excuse for not coming - had to practice at WRSC that weekend.
- Celebrity appearance at the party - Tyler Moore. Tyler's new
  professional calling - Tug boat captain (after he works his way up
  from deckhand).
- Team that consume the most alcohol over the weekend - Team Amthor (who
  else?).
- Ali's reason for mast breaking - hit a whale.
- Peak wind gust on Sat - 37 knots.

