http://sailing.org/int505/usa/events/99MidAtlantics.htm

1999 Mid-Atlantic Championship

With just two weeks to go until the 1999 East Coast Championship, the 1999
Mid-Atlantic Championships were something of a warm up for the big event. Held
this year at West River Sailing Club, Sept, 11-12, the Mid-Atlantics attracted
a wonderful collection of old faces, new sailors ( at least to Fleet 19), and
extremely challenging conditions. There were 14 boats in all, not a bad turnout
for a local event, including some old but familiar hands, such as Stephan von
Klaudy (getting back in after many years on dry land), and new (to fleet 19)
drivers, including John Hauser who recently bought Latane (Hampton National
Champion) Montague's yacht, Andy Cole (settling in the area) sailing with
Dennis Burroughs, who chartered Mark Freedman's Rondar for the ECCs, and Bill
Ball sailing with Lauren Abramson.

Sailing on Sunday was cancelled due to lack of wind, a good thing considering
Ali Meller later tried to sail back to SSA, experienced very little breeze,
never got past the river and had to get a tow back to WRSC. There were three
races on Saturday sailed in a very fluky northwesterly (3-16 knots), with big
shifts and puffs from both sides of the course.

Race 1: Big left shift at start, many boats could not lay the pin. Team Spot
(Falsone/Harris) leads a group of boats to the right with Meller/Lockwood and
Abramson/Ball close behind. The breeze was extremely shifty and boats that did
not bail out of the left early (Amthor/Amthor and Nelson/Gleason) were caught
on the wrong side of the shift later in the course. Team SPOT rounds first,
leads around reaches and into leeward mark, and up the start of the beat where
they fell into a huge hole and lots of chop. Meller/Lockwood sailed around them
to the right, catching a fresh puff that launched them into the lead. Moments
later Team Spot and Abramson/Ball both capsize in a huge lefty puff (DOH!).
Meller/Lockwood win with ease with Abramson/Ball edging Falsone/Harris at the
finish. De la Rie/Freedman were nearly overlapped with Harris/Falsone at the
finish.

Race 2 - With revenge, not to mention lust, not to mention the humilation of
the first capsize in their heart, Team Spot comes out gunning for
Meller/Lockwood. They lead the race start to finish. Moment of suspense comes
on the second reach, when the dastardly Amthors were close behind.
Harris/Falsone got a nice puff and pulled away while the Amthors, just boat
lengths behind, got a huge header that auto-gybed them. Later, Macy and Art
made a nice move on the run going right to almost catch Harris/Falsone at the
finish.

Race 3 - The left paid early, and O'Brien/Lucas looked great. O'Brien/Lucas
crossed the fleet, but lost on the last shift. Macy and Art rounded just ahead
of the Amthors and Harris/Falsone. Amthors and Team Spot held high with
Macy/Art sailing low. Amthors and Spot pass Macy and Art at the gybe mark. The
Amthors gain some distance by the leeward mark and set a loose cover on Spot up
the beat. Boats get close on the next run with Hauser/Crane, Bretons, de la
Rie/Freedman and Meller/Lockkwood also in the running. Amthors go hard right
and come out in the lead despite a puff down the middle. Meller and Nelson lose
by going too far left in a lull. Hauser/Crane, Bretons and Spot round the
leeward mark overlapped with de la Rie/Freedman close behind. Boats cross each
other up the beat, changing positions. Spot hits the left pretty hard with
Amthors covering. Figuring that the three boats going hard left would
overstand, Spot goes to cover Meller/Lockwood on the right. However, de la
Rie/Freedman and Hauser/Crane chase down a puff from the left and plane in to
nose out Harris/Falsone and almost beat the Amthors.

Allan Freedman
Jesse Falsone
