WRSC SPRING MAY 1-2
Regatta Report
by Allan Freedman

West River Spring is the traditional opener for the Fleet 19 season. It
has also gained a reputation, at least in the last few years, as the one
regatta you can count on for some breeze. This year’s event lived up to
its potential with two glorious days that saw winds inching above 20
knots at times. The big winners were Barney Harris and Jesse Falsone.
They scored straight bullets in the five race series. Coming off of
their win at the 1999 mid-winters, and after four years in the class,
Harris and Falsone are at last seeing much of their hard work, not to
mention flatulence, pay off.

Twelve boats showed for the event, including 10 local fleet 19 crews.
Ali Meller was there along with heavyweight Craig Coltharp. Macy Nelson
had Art Gleason on the wire. Henry and Doug Amthor made the trip from
Hampton Virginia. And others included Tom Price, Bob and Betsy O’Brien,
Steve and Josh Lieberman, Clayton James and Dennis Burroughs and Team
Mud Shark from the tip of Long Island. Latane Montague and John Zakaib
also showed.

It was clear from the expression on the faces of the competitors that
Saturday would be a great day for sailing. By 8:30 a.m., a honking
northerly had settled in with gusts in the bay topping 20 knots. It was
one of those classic northerly days when the sky was deep blue and the
visibility seemed endless. From the beach, the white caps on the bay
promised some transcendental three sail reaches and the fleet rigged up
as the wind whistled past. A clear sign of good weather: The ever so
delicate 470 sailors opted not to go out, and just three Stars even
showed up for the event (they sailed just two races on Saturday and then
left).

The RC fired off three 45 minute races on Saturday. While the wind
moderated all day to well below 20 then below 15 and finally down to
7 knots at time for the final race, the day lived up to its billing.
While Meller and Coltharp threatened Harris-Falsone, (Meller/Coltharp
led during one race for a time), Team Spot clearly dominated. Elsewhere
in the fleet, Peter Mignery sailing with Matt Breton showed some solid
speed. In race three, he went hard right, rounding the second windward
mark second, only to drop back to fourth overall.

After racing, the teams retired to the lawn at West River for beer and
sandwiches. About a dozen sailors went off to dinner at Adam’s Rib
a short drive from the club. Sunday saw just as much breeze even a tad
more and despite the decision by some to stay on the beach the sailing
held plenty of fast rides and good competition.
