Hampton Annual

While over 150 505 teams are battling it out in France, four 505 teams
fought hard for honors at the Hampton One Design regatta conducted over
July 3-4 in Hampton, Virginia in moderate breeze and searing heat.

Racing started on Saturday in 8-10 kts of breeze and temperatures close
to 100 degrees F. Teams consisted of TEAM SPOT consisting of Barney
Harris and novice 505 crew Randy Beck for day one and Jesse Falsone for
day two sailing USA 8643, Henry and Doug Amthor in USA 8012, Dave Dussia
with Leslie Crane (on Sunday) sailing his old parker USA 7793, and new
505 owner Greg Schuster and Bob Mitcheltree in an older parker hulled
lindsay.

In race one, Team Spot shot out to an early lead after the start
- despite the fact that no one in the boat had a watch. The course was
short so short that Spot sailed past the windward mark, thinking it was
the leeward mark - giving the lead to local 505 stalwarts Henry and Doug
Amthor. Dave Dussia rounded third, and realized they had rigged their
spinnaker sideways after hoisting. DOUGH! Very slow Henry and Doug
continued to extend and finished three boat lengths ahead of Team Spot
- but wait - no sound signals Whoops!

Neither had read the course before the start [too much booze the night
before] and had assumed a modified Olympic course.... with the starting
line listed as an obstruction, both teams had to about face and sail
back through the line to "unwind" and so reversed positions, placing
Team Spot in the lead. The Amthors passed Team Spot off wind, but were
slow on the leeward mark gybe take down [bag boat] allowing Spot
[launcher... need I say more] to slip in and take the lead for an upset
victory.

Stinging from their loss in the first heat, the Amthors sailed away from
Team Spot in race two for an easy victory.

Race three began with Team Spot taking a slim lead over the Amthors, and
maintaining for until just before the second windward mark rounding,
when Team Spot muffed an attempted lee bow tack and filled the boat with
water. The Amthors lead to the finish, although Team Spot closed
somewhat.

Saturday's racing was followed with a cookout and drinx at Doug and
Sarah Amthor's beach villa. With the oppressive heat and gnats, we
eventually were driven inside to the comfort of Doug & Sarah's new over
sized air conditioner. Doug, who was quite proud of his new HVAC system,
fire-walled the temerature control to "deep freeze" and converted the
interior of his and Sarah's home to an icebox.

The second day broke with similar wind conditions. Team Spot was joined
by regular crew Jesse Falsone. In race one, Team Spot jumped out to an
early lead, and, having noted the course prior to the start of the race,
did not have to unwind from any incorrectly crossed start lines, and won
the race going away.

Four races into the five race series and teams Amthor and Spot are now
tied, each with a 1,1,2,2 - with one race to go. Team Spot opened
negotiations by getting on the Amthors' tail, and attempted to drive
them to one side of the startline, however, the Amthors were adept at
using the committee and other boats to scrape off Spot and stay within
the triangle formed by the port and starboard laylines and the ends of
the start line. All boats crossed the line within a few seconds of the
gun with the Amthors ahead to leeward of Spot, and Dave Dussia and Les
Crane to windward of both. Team Spot was eventually squeezed out and was
forced to tack clear - but could not cross Dussia - and tacked into
a lee bow position. Dussia tacked to port. The Amthors tacked to port,
and, were clearly crossing Spot; Spot tacked to leeward and slightly
ahead. Dussia now was crossing on starboard on the layline, and Amthors
called for room to duck, hoping to pin Spot out on the starboard lay
line. Barney unsuccessfully attempted to tack underneath the Amthors,
crunching their starboard side in the process. Dave Dussia rounded
first, with the Amthors in second. Team Spot rounded a distant third
after completing a 720.

The starting line was an obstruction - which made for interesting
strategy up the windward leg - the boat behind could steer the lead boat
to a position where they had to pick one side or the other - and the
trailing boat could select the other, thus forcing a split, and gaining
leverage.

Team Spot used this to split with the Amthors, and crossed behind - but
closer. The same situation existed off wind, and saw the Amthors and
Spot split for the off wind leg. Spot had closed to within just a few
boat lengths at the leeward mark. The Amthors matched Spot tack for tack
up till the start/finish line, where they had to pick a side -and chose
the left; Spot chose the right and when the teams crossed again Spot
benefited from increasing pressure on the right and had a narrow lead.
With positions reversed, the Amthors were now in control, and split to
the right with Spot on the final downwind leg. Spot's luck held however,
and the left was favored due to slightly greater pressure. Spot lead by
4 boat lengths at the leeward mark and at the finish.

