1997 National Report

The 1997 National 505 Championships began on Friday June 13 with a clinic
taught by former National team coach Dave Thomas. The Clinic involved a small
amount of boat handling and concentrated on getting the most out of your boat
while moving in a straight line. Setting up the boat and tactics were the
topics most covered. The wind did not contribute to the clinic giving the
sailors only 1-3 knots of breeze in which to practice. 13 boats were in
attendance, 6 from Alberta, 5 from B.C., 1 from Ontario, and 1 from Colorado.

Day two started with a brief skippers meeting and talk by Dave. Peter
vanMuyden, head race official, reported winds in the 20-25 knot range. Racing
started promptly at 9:30 am. Three races were held in the morning with Robin
Brown winning two and Phil Craig taking the other. The morning was hampered
with both breakdowns and tired worn out bodies. Main halyards, Spinnaker poles,
Main sheet blocks, Spinnakers in general were all being fixed either during
some of the morning races or over lunch. Winds reportedly reached 31 knots in
the morning, a lot of wind for some and perfect conditions for the top of the
fleet to show their stuff. I believe almost the entire fleet capsized at least
once that morning.

The afternoon gave slightly lighter winds, but still remained in the 20 knot
range. With most of the boats put together the fleet headed for the start of
race #4. Three more races were sailed in the afternoon. Not as many breakdowns
occurred providing for great racing. After day one and six races the top four
boats were, Robin Brown and Dave Thomas (0 points), Phil Cragg and Wayne Brox
(14.7 points), Terry Thomas and Winston Cummings (27.7 points), Shona
Moss-Lovshin and Steve Lovshin (36.8 points). As the wind eventually died to
nothing we were all on shore enjoying a cold beverage and the 20+ temperature.
A fantastic Alberta beef Barbecue was enjoyed by all.

Day three began with the #7 race at 9:00 am. The race committee had been
switching between gate and line starts throughout the regatta which provided
for a little more variety on the start line. The wind in the 7th race were in
the 15-20 knot range and had dropped to just above 10 knots in the last race.
With the course shifting continuously to the left the race committee decided to
call the regatta at 11:15 am giving everyone enough time to pack up and get an
early start on their drives home.
