Inland Championships 1997
Grafham Water
12-13 April 1997

60 505s, more used to finding strong, cold and often wet breezes at this early
season regatta, were disconcerted to find a cloudless blue sky and a rather
shifty, fitful force 2 - 3 from the north, when they arrived at Grafham for the
1997 Inland Championship.

The format of the multi-sponsored Regatta has changed this year from a four to
a six-race series, with the Race Officer having a choice of six course
configurations to choose from, all using gate starts.

Hector Cisneros & John Ironmonger were pathfinders for race one, sailed on a
'reverse Olympic' (run first) race track. Clive Robinson & Garry Cawthorn
looked good for a windward mark lead but fell fowl of some unkind shifts in the
last hundred metres to round fourth, behind Ian Pinnell & Ian Godfrey, Dave
Peacock & Mark Longstaff and Jeremy Robinson & Dan Cripps. As always, staying
in touch with the shifts whilst keeping an eye on the competition was crucial,
and Pinnell & Godfrey managed to stay in control until the same 'bit of rough'
that had done for Robinson earlier in the race, also did for them, and Debbie
Jarvis, sailing with Mathew Flint and making an impressive return from
'maternity leave', came in from the right, picking up more breeze, four places
and, by crossing the line first, half a boat length in front of Pinnell &
Godfrey, two bottles of champagne! Robinson & Cripps were third.

Race 2 used the same course and pathfinders Mark Upton-Brown and Ian Mitchell
got to the top just behind Peacock & Longstaff and Robinson & Cawthorn. On the
third beat, Upton Brown & Mitchell got through to the front, with Peacock and
Longstaff chasing them. Close cover had to be the order of the day in these
conditions and, although it nearly went horribly wrong for Upton-Brown when he
had to crash tack to avoid a 'back marker' a few metres short of the finish, he
and Mitchell took the gun. Peacock & Longstaff took second and Martin Hodgeson
& Paul Beasley pulled through to third.

Race 3 was to be sailed on the old Olympic pitch and it was Dave Shiel & Jeremy
Entwhistle who kicked off. Pinnell & Godfrey were again able to get the first
beat just right and keep things under control again, whilst those behind
experienced marked changes of fortune depending, as always, on how well they
coped with the shifts and spotted the areas of stronger breeze. But in the
second half of the last beat, reigning World Champions Paul Towers & Dan
Johnson got through and, after some pretty close match racing, took line
honours by a boat length. In the meantime, Eamon & Mark Cuthbert had been
sailing their own race and finished third.

The second day provided equally blue skies but absolutely no wind and, at lunch
time, the remaining races were abandoned. This meant that, whilst three races
did constitute a Championship, there were no discards available, and the
situation therefore favoured the consistently good. Towers & Johnson, with a
fourth, seventh and first and twelve points, were the 1997 Inland Champions.

There was some consolation available for everyone else, in that the sunshine
was warm, the bar was open, FA Cup semi-finals were on the TV, followed by the
Argentinean Grand Prix and there would still be time to get home and watch
Tiger Woods win the US Masters. Those that needed consoling most were Pinnell
with two seconds and a twenty second, Peacock with a 6, a 2 and a 33 and
Robinson, with a 5, a 4 and a 27.

The following thanks are due. To Race Officers Graham Wright & Mike Beloe for
first class race management. To Ronstan, who sponsored an extremely 'Happy
Hour' during the Saturday evening dinner and were largely responsible for a
degree of fragility within the fleet on Sunday, and to the Event Sponsors,
Boards & Blades, Hyde Sails, Jonti - Grafham's chandlers and sailing school,
Milanes Foils, North Sails, Pinnell & Bax Sails, Pinnell & Bax chandlers, and
River Mill chandlers, for some brilliant prizes.
