esse's NA's report
2012-09-25

Here's a report on the 2012 505 NAs, which I had never expected to give.

I'm sitting in my office on Wednesday mid-morning when I get a call.
It's Mike Martin and he needs me to hop a flight to San Francisco
immediately to sail the 505 NAs with him, but not until he makes
absolutely sure that any one of 7 other local (and not so local)
alternatives absolutely cannot make it. I don't remember the entire
list, but Carl Buchan, some local kite boarder, and one of the Barbados
Worlds rum girls were in there so I'm not in such bad company. Mike's
regular crew, "Jeffa" Nelson, had to bolt out of town for a family
emergency, otherwise the regatta would have been over since they are 10%
faster. Mike and I sailed together in 2005 on both coasts and the
Germany worlds where we were one bad tactical move from the title (and
decades of an unbearably smug Falsone). This success accounts for why
I'm #8 on the Mike Martin 505 crew depth chart.

After explaining to Mike that although it was possible, I would
undoubtedly pay a large price at work, where I had proposal work, and at
home being that it was my daughter's 10th birthday and my wedding
anniversary. Mike was undeterred by such flimflam, but said to give him
another hour to check in with the junior club after I said that I only
weighed 192 and had a bad shoulder. Meanwhile, I watched the internet
prices of last-minute plane tickets ratchet ever-higher by the minute.

In desperation, Mike relented and asked me to push the "purchase"
button, which I did just before airfares reached a grand and I would
have to connect through Anchorage.

So, after an unconvincing explanation to my boss and tepid approval from
my wife, I risked life and limb dodging DC traffic to get home, pack,
and race back up to BWI for my flight to SFO. Fortunately, I did have
just enough time to stop at CVS and pick up a prescription for some
little pills to calm my nerves. There was a lot to live up to after
snatching the crewing spot from some anonymous kite boarder.

Mike picks me up at the airport on-time, which is like 10pm west coast
time, 1pm east coast time. He told me I looked small and weak. I didn't
tell him I hadn't slept the night before. Everyone was happy.

It bears mentioning that I sailed the 2009 worlds made famous by the 25
knots of wind going against a 3 knot ebb which made for some of the
nastiest conditions on the Berkley Circle and any 505 worlds (except for
the epic pre-worlds race in Durban 2000 which is now folklore).
I survived, and declared I was now retired from 505 crewing in San
Francisco. And I meant it.

But September on the Bay is different than August. It's kinder and
gentler, and certainly nothing my 43 year old body and bum shoulder
couldn't handle. My temerity was rewarded with 4 days of some of the
best sailing conditions you could hope for if you neglect the 50 degree
water temperature and the hour sail to the race course.

I won't bore you with the details of the racing other than to say that
most races were sailed in 15-20 knots, and the flood tide kept the sea
pretty flat. We sailed 11 races, with none other than Pip Pearson, 505
legend and class president, presiding over the race committee on behalf
of the sailors. Courses were square and just the right length for the 27
boats. Gate starts went off without a hitch. Mike and I even had the
honor of being the first pathfinder, which has nothing to do with Mike
Holt appointing us, and possibly believing that the left side would be
favored early in the day (speculation and slander!). Now I'm no Russ
Miller in the front of the boat, but we did have our chances to win,
some of which were unrelated to a broken trapeze ring or overstanding
the finish while in the lead or not slamming our competition during
a crucial time on the last day. In the end, it was none other than
Hampton's Tyler Moore sailing with Rob Woelfel who would come out on top
by two points over Mike and myself. Tyler and Rob were masterful when it
counted, and that's what champions do. I expect this victory, Tyler's
4th at the NAs, is especially gratifying since it comes in west coast
waters, where west coasters hate to lose. Well done, my friend! You
earned it through two decades of commitment to the class and bettering
your game. Rob - you earned it too (insert surly in defeat comment
here).

As for me, I believe I was the only sub 6 foot or 200 pound crew in the
top half of the fleet, but this only shows how hard Mike hikes. It is
a convenient excuse nonetheless. But, the important thing is that we
beat Mike Holt, which was the real goal anyway. Holty was severely
handicapped himself with Dave Shelton on the wire, so who can blame him.

So, with a heavy heart, I caught my red eye back to BWI, rushed back to
work, literally walking into a meeting with company brass this morning
while still buttoning the same shirt I had ditched in the car last
Wednesday. Was it worth it? Damn straight it was! I had another shot at
the title with Mike Martin, notched another top three finish at NAs, and
solidified my legend as the best midget 505 crew in modern times (not
counting Darren Nicholson). What's more, I'm told I'm eligible for the
US Sailing grant for worlds.  Unfortunately, Mike's involvement in the
AC has labeled him a professional and therefore forfeits his half of the
grant to me (thanks, Mike!). Now, I just need to get some sleep before
I write something that will get me in trouble.  Complete Results

"Jessee" Falsone
