Hey Fleet!

Tim asked me to do the write up on last weekends Spring Dinghy Regatta,
so here it goes!

If the weather reports earlier in the week scared you away from joining
in on the fun, you missed out!

Saturday we were gifted a beautiful sunny day in the mid 60’s.

Race 1 We had 9 boats on the line with a 6-8 knot southerly breeze. The
fleet stayed with in boat lengths of each on the first leg with a lots
of tacks and ducks only to see Howie and Jon bell work their light air
mojo and sail away from the pack for the victory followed by Mike
Punnett and Paul Von Grey. Mike and Adam rounded out the top three.

Race 2 was held in a dying 6 knot southerly breeze. Mike and Adam worked
their way through the fleet with Howie keeping the pressure on. On the
second lap the wind started to fade and the top four boats managed to
make it around the course while the rest struggled to drift across the
finish line only to miss the time limit. Mike and Adam finished first
followed by Howie and Jon and the Nic and his brother finished third.

With all the conflicting weather forecasts the Saturday evening social
was moved offsite to a local Mexican restaurant where the fleet was
treated to a variety of tacos, burritos and the usual bar karate banter.
Teams turned in early as the forecast for Sunday looked to be all on!

On Sunday we were dealt a cold blustery 50 degrees with potential for
rain. The race committee bump the start time up by an hour to hopefully
avoid the full brunt of the storm that was predicting winds in the 40’s
later in the afternoon.

Race three was held in a choppy 12-14 knot southerly breeze. At the
start the pin end was crowded and Mike and I got flushed and immediately
did a clearing tack. When we flopped back over we locked into a good
righty and crossed the whole fleet. It was short lived as Howie snuck in
at the top mark with the other two Mike’s hot on our tail. Lots of puffs
and shifts made for plenty of position changes throughout the fleet.
Mike and Adam sailed around Howie for the win, Howie and Jon right
behind him, Mike and PVG managed to get us on the short upwind to finish
third.

Race four was a mixed bag. It started out 12-14 knots then on the second
lap it was briefly sit running conditions. Lots of gear shifting and
keeping your head on a swivel. Howie and Jon got the bullet, followed by
Punnett and PVG and then Mike and Adam.

Race five was started in building 18 knot breeze that eventually topped
out in the low 30’s. Right at the start the breeze went right big time
which saw most of the fleet starting on port at the pin end for a blast
of a drag race. With the long fetch from Redwood City the waves built
which made for some challenging upwinds and some fun surfing downwind.
There were capsizes all over the course (mostly Mike and I). Mike and
Adam did their heavy air thing and pulled away for the win, with Howie
in hot pursuit for second, Punnett and PVG in Third.

Final Scores: (1st) Howie and Jon (2nd) Mike and Adam (3rd) Punnett and
Paul (4th) Jack and Nathan (5th) Ryan and Mike (6th) Christian and Bjorn
(7th) Nic and Brother (8th) Ian (9th) Andrea and Joby

Shout Outs!

- Thanks you to Mike Punnett and PVG for traveling the furthest to make
 it to the event. The additional Mike meant that this counted as an
 official 5o5 regatta as we met our “Mike” quota! 3 Mikes! As well it
 was great seeing you guys pushing Mike and Howie.
- The Aussie and Canadian Team of Jack and Nathan were consistently
 finding themselves pressuring the lead group the whole weekend, stoked
 to see them progressing!
- Ian showed us that time in the boat is paying off and he was going
 pretty quick in the light stuff on Saturday.
- It was great seeing Nic out there with his brother, bummed for you
 guys that they had a breakdown and missed out on Sundays fun.
- Happy to see Christian out there with Bjorn on the Green Boat. Love
 seeing boats in new hands and active in the fleet again, as well they
 were going fast and pushing Mike and I!
- Andrea and Joby in the fleet boat pushing it hard was great to see.
 Once they get through the teaching issues of an older boat they will
 be a force out there. As well I’m stoked to see a local Junior sailor
 out there on the wire. Need to get Joby and some of his friends out on
 other boats.
- Mike, Howie, Adam and Jon I truly appreciate you guys coming to these
 events, sharing your knowledge and showing how its done. I will never
 tire of watching your guys speed and skills as you plane away from me.
- My Mike, thanks for hanging in their with me and thanks for being an
 animal on the wire!
- It was super cool to se our fleet along with the ILCA’s work together
 to help each other pull boats out in the crazy conditions at the ramp.
- Thanks to Aland Prussia at RONSTAN for providing the Bad Ass
 Trophy/Giveaways!!!
- Finally to my race committee, could not have pulled off this
 challenging event with out you guys! Thank you!

It was great to sail in some challenging conditions with a great fleet.
Looking forward to the next event in Santa Cruz!

Ryan Nelson
Team Rogue Rigging 8680
