[505-usa-region-1] Newport Regatta Report

I think the story of the event is a youth movement. 1st and 3rd were both young teams sailing the boat well. The combined ages of some of the teams were definitely below several individual competitors, me included. We'll start there:

1st - Ian Mathiesen and Trevor Davis
3rd - Christian Voyer and Luke Strickland

I snuck into 2nd sailing with Ben Greenfield. We were almost
immediately, more on that in a minute, on the pace after a bit of a 505
break for Ben.

We tried the Vakaros starting/tracking systems and opinions were mixed.
I'll say this - regatta reports get a lot longer when you can replay the
races... (Tracker here:
https://vakaros-racesense.web.app/watch/RYXdovgfaTlhgVKZrYHs/5o5?live=true)

Conditions were "classic Newport Regatta." That is not "classic Newport"
which I'd define as a nice sea breeze that allows trapezing. We got
light southerlies that did not bring much trapezing. Some predictions
had it getting into the teens Saturday but we didn't really see that.
Buoy data claims we got a gust to 13 but the entire day was maybe 8,
give or take. Great job to RC and Sail Newport communicating and
holding ashore while it was way down and all over the place. Once the
southerly filled in we launched and went north of the Newport Bridge and
got 3 good races in for the breeze we had with a pretty good ebb through
the second race.

Race 1: Good start for us off the the line, yep line starts with the
Vakaros systems, but we were the meat in the sandwich. We started to
weather of Adam/Craig while Ian/Trevor were going well in the lane to
weather of us and they got over the top. I never really felt good about
the jib setup: too full, not sheeted hard enough while closing the top
off, and you can see it in the tracking. We were lower and not quite as
fast as everyone else. We had the jib up/down all the way off but still
couldn't get there. Craig/Adam and Ian/Trevor had a good battle all the
way around with Ian/Trevor sneaking by on the last downwind to take the
win.

Race 2: We got ourselves sorted between races, breeze was still 8ish
but we found that the jib up/down was just sticky (note to boat owners:
sail your boat) and once we got it well eased we were much happier with
our jib shape. We won the pin and were now on the pace, pushing left
into the more favorable current ebbing upwind. Adam/Craig eventually
tacked out and hooked into a good righty that took them into the lead at
the weather mark and they defended well from there. The right shift
stayed in and even playing into the current couldn't get us past them.
On the final run the breeze dropped a bit and it turned into a game of
staying in the pressure. Adam/Craig defended well as Christian/Luke
charged and Ian/Trevor made a move inside while Mike/Duane drove the
chasing pack high. Win to Adam/Craig, lots of boats right on their
heels.

Race 3: The ebb was pretty much gone but we had no reason not to work
the left. We won the pin with Mike/Duane to weather of us. They
couldn't live there so they kicked our butt, reaching through to get
clear and then working back around us to lead at the weather mark.
(editors note: the universe is conspiring as Sailing world sent me this
story today - The Reach-Through Escape: One Way to a Better Lane
| Sailing World) So Mike/Duane lead at the weather mark with a bunch of
us close behind. Downwind not much changed, Adam/Craig were the first
to gybe out but everyone went shortly thereafter and all got to the gate
about the same time, Ian/Trevor and Adam/Craig opted to head left so
Mike/Duane covered after rounding the left gate before us. We extended
right since we figured the left wasn't great and we'd seen some
righties. That didn't quite work as we found some lighter spots and the
top boats paired up toward the weather mark and we all rounded close.
Downwind it was a pressure game and Ian/Trevor won out.

Craig led a great debrief Saturday night after putting up a 2/1/2 to
lead, once we got away from the band. We had a lot of discussion of the
racecourse, setup (to include our jib foolishness), and moding downwind.
There was consensus was that you had to be pretty aggressive about
changing between pole forward and building apparent in the light vs
squaring and biting low in the pressure. There was no consensus on crew
directly holding the guy/sheet vs squaring through a cleat or block or
something.

Sunday. 2nd verse same as the first, except lighter and choppier. It was
a frustrating day in a lot of ways, one might say Annapolis-like
conditions. Ebbing all day, the breeze teased us a little early but
wound up a touch lighter than Saturday. This is getting way too long so
I'll sum up by saying lighter crews who could dig a little deeper
downwind and could keep the boats going all of the time with the chop
did well. We were at 25'9" all day and just tried to sail
shifts/fleet/current tactically. Ian/Trevor did it the best putting up
a 1/1/2/1 to walk away with it. We snuck by a couple boats to slide
into second and the Canadian team of Christian/Luke sailed well to sneak
by Adam/Craig into 3rd. Good for them to hit a season goal of being on
the podium in an American event.

Ultimately, great competition throughout the event. As always a small
bobble or mistake could cost a good number of boats. Great to have new
and old faces in the boats.

Full results here:
https://www.yachtscoring.com/event_results_cumulative/50010

Ted
