Burton SC (Foremark Reservoir), 20/21 May - Training and Mini Open Meeting

Martin Goult reports:

On the weekend of May 20/21 Burton Sailing Club hosted a training day
run by Ian Pinnel on Saturday followed by a mini open meeting on Sunday.
The event was held in light to medium winds with marginal trapezing
being the norm throughout. The training made us all think more about our
downwind sailing and to spend more time on boat maintenance with
centreboards getting more attention than they usually do around the boat
park at Burton. A series of short races were held followed by some
tacking practice all watched and videoed by Ian to be used as evidence
against us later.

The races starting on Sunday had a F1 Monaco feel with overtaking being
difficult around the 'tight' Burton buoys with everyone very reluctant
to give up any position easily, the main difference to messrs Coultard
and co was that everyone in the fleet had the ability to sail away and
win the race once in front. In the first race it was John Webster and
Eric Ironmonger who won the first beat and never looked back to sail
away to a stylish and comfortable win. Second place was held by Martin
Goult with pressure being applied all the time by Dave Peacock, Clive
Robinson's confrontation with the first mark, gave him a place to hide
down the pack, from which there was no recovery and would later prove
critical.

In the second race it was Martin Goult and Gordon Russell who led at the
first mark and went on to take the race from Clive Robinson. This set
things up nicely for the final race with Clive Robinson needing a win to
put the pressure on Martin Goult, the speculation in the club house
before hand was that if he did not achieve this if would be the first
time in history that a 505 event had been held on Burton without Clive
winning a single race. History was not to be made with Clive winning
despite a 180' wind shift at the end of the race closing the field up.
Dave Peacock held on for second to take third overall and a third place
by Martin Goult was enough to win the event by having a better discard.

Thanks again to Burton Sailing Club for hosting the event and for Ian
Pinnel in providing his expertise and time to run training sessions. The
only shame is that there were very few visiting boats taking the
opportunity to learn from the UK's and one of the world's leading 505
sailor .
