Midwest Champioships
22-23 August 1998
South Port Sailing Club, Lake St. Claire
Ontario

Right up front, let me give the credits. Renka and Adam Gesing have shown their
incredible side again. They pulled together an amazing regatta from scraps. Of
course, they have experience, contributing to the organization of several
major, successful regattas, including the 1990 Worlds, a few North Americans,
and several Canadian Championships, but they showed the same intensity and
dedication to the Midwest Champs as to these more high-profile events. Their
club, The South Port Sailing Club, was host to this event and the club also
simultaneously hosted its annual Invitational Regatta for keelboats. Therefore,
the Gesings had to pull together meals, committee boats, marks, and race
committee. Also, we had a bit of financial security added by Huron Valley Steel
Corp., a car recycling company from the Detroit area and employer of Adam. The
race committee was a patchwork of SPSC members and imported dignitaries, headed
by Carol Alexander (wife of Graham, mother of Brooke and Claire, and prominent
Windmill sailor at the same time, almost) as Race Committee Chair. Though the
committee lacked GPS and VHF, they didn't lack SMARTS, so the races evolved
smoothly (with the help of one high-level competitor dragging marks between
races. Try this at the Worlds, Hugh! I dare ya! Nudge-nudge, wink-wink). All of
these pieces came together and it worked!
 

One other bit of documentation/credit. This regatta redefined the "Midwest" as
all space between the East Coast and the Mississippi River, almost. Of course,
this is in line with the cartographic considerations, and this is the way many
of us Midwest 5-ohers have always seen it, but this was the first year in many
that most of the territory was represented. Apparently, Windsor is the place to
hold this event. We had crews from Montreal to Chicago, and many locales in
between, 20 in all. That makes this the best-attended Midwest Champs in the
memory of the geezers whose memory is starting to go. Among these crews, we had
seasoned crews in hot boats and new-comers in classics. We were joined even by
John and Krista Zarling, grad students from Michigan Tech on the UP (that's
"Upper Peninsula" to the non-Midwesterners), 12 hours north-by-west of Detroit,
who entertain the notion of joining the fray. They volunteered to drive the
gate boat, and they got a taste of 5-ohing in 15-18. They're pumped.
 

Now to the racing. Saturday morning, we rigged with a nice northerly blowing at
10-12 mph with low clouds/old fog rolling through. By the start of the first
race, the wind moderated to 1-5, with puffs to 6 in patches. This placed a huge
premium on clear air and acceleration post tacking Those other watercraft that
depend on fossil fuels often came through, coming for a look or just going from
one there to another, and created some interesting wave conditions that also
called for effective acceleration.. Hugh Morrin/Michael Hoffman broke clear
immediately after the start of the first race, developed substantial speed, and
separated themselves from us mortals. Brook Hamilton and Jeff Boyd (Jeff was
for the absolute first time crewing in a 505 regatta) latched onto the green
boat's wake and hung in well. I could detect no particular favor to either side
of the course, so racing was tight. Boats converged from both sides at the
windward mark. Places changed a bit on the reaches, especially in the second
phalanx, but the final outcome and an overall pattern were determined. Hugh
continued to show us the way during the rest of the day. I somehow did a few
things correctly and sneaked in for third in the second race; a few of the
luminaries faltered during that race, a few others in the next, but a few
remained consistent. At the end of the three-race day, which for some couldn't
come too soon, Hugh and Michael had reason to be cocky, but weren't, and there
was a three-way tie for second, with Hamilton/Boyd, a Chicago boat
(Kaiser/Badtke), and the Montreal syndicate (Bertrand/Molimard) baiting each
other in anticipation of the next day's competition. That evening, the club
sponsored a chili/salad dinner, and we hung around chatting..
 

Sunday was different, at least in some respects. A weak front went through
during the night, leaving us to rig in a light southwest. The weather services
forecast 10-15, building to 15-25, and, believe it or not, that is what we got
for the next four races, each of about 50 min. duration. Because of the wind's
direction, the waves were quite modest. The first windward leg was short enough
that the start (appropriate end of the line, of course with clear air) was a
large determinant in the final outcome. In all races, one side or the other was
favored. On a few lucky instances, I got it right. Certainly, others got it
right more often. In the first race, we had one great demolition derby at the
leeward mark the second time around. It was kind of fun to catch glimpses of it
going on behind me. That situation and these four races gave several crews a
chance to practice their ability to recover from a capsize. There was some
incentive to do it correctly because the deepest part of Lake St. Claire is 18
feet (6 m) deep. Where we sailed, the depth was more like 10 ft. (3 m).
Nevertheless, consider the conditions: planing to windward in 15-20
consistently (a few puffs higher, rare lulls), exhilarating off-wind rides, air
temps in the low 80's F (25-27 C), water temps in the high 70's F (23-24 C),
bright sun, good old friends, good new friends ... This is 5-ohing!
 

Hugh Morrin left no doubt that this pilot of rotary-winged and horizontal
fixed-winged craft can also pilot a vertical-winged craft, with the able
assistance of Mike Hoffman. Jeff Boyd, a 505 skipper of considerable renown, a
past-commodore of Kingston Yacht Club, an international sailing coach, and
principal in the Canadian America's Cup effort, showed that he can learn a few
new tricks, though he was heard to mumble something like "never again." He and
Brook made an effective crew. Shona Lovshin-Moss, an outstanding Olympic
Canadian in Europe dinghies but a 505er at the core, and hubby Steve Lovshin
showed speed and consistency to place third. OK, I will begrudgingly grant that
the Canadians did well on their home water, taking the first four places, six
of the top ten, but hey, "our dollar's bigger 'n your dollar!" But seriously,
folks, the best crews were just that, and it was good to have the Midwest
Champs include them, finally.
 

Non-5-ohers please note: several novice teams were present in non-SuperBoats
and they were in the thick of it. There were four female drivers, two in the
top four, two more females crewing, and one thirteen-year-old skipper (Barrett
Rhoads). There is room for all who want to join us.
 

More power to ya! Therefore, more vang!
 

Dave Stetson
