Grafham Winter Series
Grafham Water SC
19th November 1996

The six weekend Winter 505 series is well underway at Grafham Water Sailing
Club, with 3 Sundays racing having taken place. A total of 22 boats have taken
part in the event so far.

The first days racing was held on October 13th in a force 4-5 south-easterly
breezeand was dominated by the irregular pairing of Terry Scutcher and Simon
Lake who won each of the races, including one 50 minute race by 3.25 minutes !.

The second Sunday was November 3rd and the conditions were a wild force 5 to 7.
Ian Pinnell and Mark Darling took early leads on both races, but were overtaken
in both by Ricard Tew and Simon Lake who almost immediately capsized in both.
In the second race Pinnell/Darling also capsised allowing the lightweight
combination of Dave Peacock and Mark Darling to take the race. The third race
was not sailed as everyone went home for some tea.

The third day was on November 10th, with a force 2-3 north easterly blowing.
Pinnell and Darling domniated the day with a 2nd and two 1st. Richard Tew and
Simon Hiscocks showed good speed all day with a 1st, 2nd and 4th. Tew &
Hiscocks, led for most of the first race until overtaken by Pinnell/Darling,
however a very close finish allowed Tew/Hiscocks to steal the race back.

Yesterdays Grafham Water 505 Travellers Series was sailed in a southerly
force 2 breeze, temperatures were around 2C (36F) at the start. Ian
Pinnell was missing (sailing his Melges 24 in the Solent), and nobody
was able to live with Richard Tew and Simon Hiscocks who won all three
races, the first and last from Dave Peacock and Mark Longstaff. Charlie
Walters and Mike Pike had good speed all day to record two thirds and
a fifth, whilst Terry Scutcher and Simon Lake struggled to get a new
(black) mast working in conditions not much to their liking.

For all you folks who have the sense to hang up your harnessess for the
winter, half of the last race was held in a snow storm, and we had half
an inch or more of snow on the decks by the time we had finished packing
up.

The results follow, its all very close with the leading three boats are
separated by only 2.75 points over 6 races to count, and with Pinnell
and Darling having temporarily dropped down the table due to being short
of a race to qualify, the next day (Dec 8th)should see them bounce back.


