505 North Americans 1994
Championship Report
Dateline: Buzzards Bay, MA
Bruce Edwards
reprinted from Fall 1994 Tank Talk

Neal Fowler and the New Bedford Yacht Club put on a fantastic event sailed on
Buzzards Bay, MA. Organization of the event was a challenge because there was
no 'local' fleet at the site, but Neil and the gang overcame the challenge and
ran a top notch, first class event. The turn out was great with 35 boats in
attendance, which included 5 boats from the West Coast.

The practice day was a nasty NorEaster with cold rain, a few intrepid sailors
ventured out into the bay. That night, Ethan Bixby lead a great round table
discussion of sailing techniques that all benefited from immensely.

The first day dawned to a light northeasterly as the previous days front passed
through the area. The committee set a course that had the weather mark within
rock throwing distance of the shore. This made for some very tricky weather
beats, especially within the last 100 yards of the mark. Consequently, places
changed very rapidly in both races. Macy Nelson & Peter Alarie showed what was
the shape of things to come by winning the first race narrowly over locals Neil
Fowler & Dave Dyson. Nick Trotman & Mike Mills from Boston were third,
Canadians Jeff Boyd & Martin tenHove were fourth, and Collegiate Sailor of the
Year Tyler Moore, sailing with Boat Ace Carl Anderson was fifth. Race 2 was in
near identical conditions but the results were scrambled. Mike Punnett & Scott
Ikle, after an 11th in the first race bulleted the second, closely followed by
Ali Meller & Allan Johnson, Fowler/Dyson, Moore/Anderson, and Nelson/Alarie.

Day two of racing saw the 'classic' southwesterly seabreeze start to build,
slowly cumulating on the last beat of race two with a nice 12 to 16 knot wind
range. Canadians Jeff Boyd and Martin tenHove, found the conditions to their
liking, winning both race 3 & 4, but not without some tough racing. Race 3 saw
many place changes throughout the fleet with Meller/Johnson finishing second,
Fowler/Dyson in third, Nelson/Alarie in fourth, and Jonathan Phillips and
Leslie Crane rounding out the top 5.

Race 4 was the only 'windy' race of the series. Boyd/tenHove fought off Mike
Punnet/Scott Ikle to win their second straight. Next was Meller/Johnson,
Californians Bruce Edwards and Don smith, with Phillips and Crane again in
fifth.

Day three started with a light southerly breeze that looked like it was going
to build into a seabreeze again. The committee had to postpone for 2 hours to
wait for the breeze. Finally a race was launched with decent conditions. Boyd &
tenHove broke out to a nice lead and appeared to have locked up the regatta,
when on the last beat the wind shut down and 2 new breezes fought right on the
finish line. Boyd and tenHove watched helplessly as Nelson/Alarie, followed by
Edwards/Smith, Fowler/Dyson, locals Tom Kivney & John Fry, and transplanted
Californians Bryan Largay and Matt Sander sailed below them with spinnakers up,
leaving them in 6th place. The standings scrambled and left the top 4 in a
virtual tie for the Championship.

The committee elected to run a sixth race on the spare day to determine a
champion. Unfortunately, after a long delay once again, only a short triangle
could be completed. Virginians and new class secretary Kenny Elliot and Alan
Kilgore took the gun, followed by Mike Breault & Curtis Hartman, Nelson/Alarie,
Phillips/Crane, and Largay & Sanders. The third place finish was enough to give
Macy Nelson and Peter Alarie their second North American title in 2 years.

Macy and Peter's consistency was certainly their key to victory. They were
always in the hunt, throwing out a 6th as their worst race. They certainly had
great speed, but their key to victory was consistent tactical decisions in the
tricky breezes.

The class AGM was also held during the regatta, electing a new slate of class
officers and held some lively discussions of concerns to the class as a whole.

Overall, kudos go to Neil and all the other folks that made this event a great
success. Next years North American's will be on the West Coast in beautiful
Vancouver, British Columbia, certainly another event not to be missed. The
dates of next year's event are June 18 through 26th, with the first three days
as the 505 Canadian Championships, followed by 2 lay days and then 4 days of
the 505 North Americans. It gives you the ability to do 2 great events of just
1 if you don't have much time. Don't miss it!

Bruce Edwards
