505 European Championships Medemblik, Holland 8/13-21

by Howard Hamlin

reprinted from Fall 1994 Tank Talk

Details:
- 63 Boats
- 8 Countries in Attendance
- 6 Prior World Champions
- Races 1,2 and 6: 5-10 knots
- Races 3 and 4: 25-30 knots
- Race 5: 15 knots

Mike Martin and I were leading overall after three races, but suffered
a setback when we had to retire at the start of the 5th race after
fouling the gate vessel in heavy starting traffic. In a gate start,
standard for the 505 class, any contact with gate boat results in a DSQ.
Sitting out this medium air race, we had to watch all the top boats have
a good race and improve their scores. Laying 5th overall going into the
last race, we finished 3rd in the race, good enough to give us 3rd in
the regatta.

The 1990 World Champions Jorgen Schonherr and Anders Kaempe of Denmark
came on strong in the last few races to win the 1994 European
Championships. Paul Towers and Dan Johnson of Great Britain finished
second by consistent sailing in the widely varying conditions in spite
of having to drop a DNF when they broke their centerboard in the heavy
air fourth race.

1993 World Champions Ian Barker and Ian Mitchell of the U.K. were one of
3 boats that could win going into the last race, but a 10th in that race
dropped them to 4th overall.

Four time World Champion Krister Bergstrom of Sweden, sailing with
Thomas Moss, also had a chance at winning going into the last day, but
they sailed their drop (16th) in the last race giving them 5th overall.

It is interesting how the popularity and competitiveness of the 505
class increases each year. It is not uncommon in Great Britain, Germany
or France to have 100 boat regattas. With this popularity comes greater
depth in the fleet. As Jorgen Schonherr said "each " year
I learn more and get faster and yet, it does not get any easier to
win". an example of " increased competitiveness is in high
wind sailing. In what might be termed survival conditions for most
classes, the 505's are having serious tactical racing. For example, in
race 4 after two hours of high speed racing in 25 to 30 knots, the first
4 boats were overlapped at the finish.

Sailing in the Europeans, which are sailed only during the years when
the World's are out of Europe, is just like a world championship except
it takes only 1 week and there were no Australians or other American.

Holland is a beautiful, flat country of lush green farmland, dikes,
windmills, tulips, dairy cows and pastures. One third of the country has
been "reclaimed from the " sea" over the " last 400 years and is
typically 3 to 5 meters below sea level.

Medemblik is a wonderful place to sail with the small harbor immediately
adjacent to the boat course. The shallow water, 3 to 4 meters, makes for
some short steep shop, and an easy place to break your mast I you put
the tip in the mud. The village is a classic 400 plus year old sea port
with leaning buildings, dikes, canals, locks, narrow streets,
restaurants, cages, and with everything in walking distance. In short,
it's a great place to sail.
