Report from Dave Stetson on
the 1995 Hoover Spring Regatta


This regatta occured May, 1995, on Hoover Reservoir in Columbus, Ohio

The storied legacy of the Hoover 505 Regatta has been augmented once again.
Seven boats converged this last weekend (May 13-14) on the puddle for racing
and fraternizing/sororizing. Trite-isms ignored, a wonderful time was had by
all. Ki Kaiser and John Badtke brought the old black beauty, Rondar 4068, to
give the old hull(k) another run around the race course. As the results show,
the cleanly rigged classic had a turn of speed left in her. John Dohan came
with the new machine and new crew, given the fact that ol' Bill Beardslee is
somewhere communing with the Dalai Lama or smoking some strange leaf in the
more remote parts of the planet. (He is still on the planet!) Dave Zetti
acquitted himself well, and together, John and Dave put on a good show:
constant speed and the occasional splash. Regional regular Phil Terman gave
John Badtke's wife a role to play; they promise to be an up-and-coming sailing
couple. John and Phil's wife Elaine have nothing to fear, though. They're just
sailing buddies. The newest faces (although Dave Zetti's face was unfamiliar,
his is as old as mine) were those of Mike Goldstein and Geoff Cashman. Mike and
Geoff comprise the racing contingent of the Indiana University Yachting Club
and they took it upon themselves to give new meaning to the life of a well-worn
Butler #2987. With borrowed sails and duct tape, Mike and Geoff were introduced
to 5-oh-in'; they'll be back. The Graham/Mark combination has been around for
13 years, the Jim/Peter duo for two years, and I had a different person hanging
from my wire since my last regatta. Gris (short for Grisham) Bettle is serious
wire meat at about 6'2", 220 lbs. i " liked having the power and the enthusiasm
Gris offers.

We sailed five races on Saturday, one before lunch at the usual BurgerKing
Bistro, and four before the evening repast. All races were two-lap,
gold-cup-style triangles. The winds for the day were from the south-east, which
means shifty and squirrelly at Hoover. (Translation: "shifty" means having
directional instability, plus or minus 30+ degrees; "squirrelly" means having
curly-cues, vortices, up-drafts, down-drafts, and any other perverse
characteristic you can dream of.) The first race was maddening at 6-9 mph. The
alert crews took advantage of some interesting shifts and did well. The Indiana
boat identified some weak links in anticipation of the second race. After
lunch, the wind built to 12-18 with frequent holes and square-edged puffs.
Following shifts and shifting gears made the difference at the front of the
fleet; staying upright would have changed the fortunes of a few in the more
delayed group.

Saturday evening, we took a quick trip to the supermarket and made ourselves a
quiet, tasty dinner. We had no place we wanted to go, we were a little tired,
and half of the fleet was already home, later sleeping somewhere on club
property.

During the single-digit hours of Sunday morning, a large storm blew in: lots of
ground-strike lightening, hail - the good midwest weather. It left us with low
clouds and 5-oh conditions. We had fun - real fun. The winds were south-west at
I would guess 18-25 for two morning races. Flat-water up-wind planing at its
best, controlled screaming reaches included. A blown jibe or take-down helped a
few of us dissipate the sweat we had worked up on the windward legs. (The air
temp was low 70s, the water temp, mid 50s, so we dressed reasonably warmly, and
appreciated the occasional tea-bagging/swim).

In each race, the starts were tight, the first windward leg was busy looking
for starboard tackers, and the interactions were frequent among the seven
boats. The transitions caused the eventual separations. This was puddle sailing
as is it supposed to be. Boat speed was important, but not more important than
crew work, tactics, and alterness. Graham and Mark dominated. Years of teamwork
help, as do making no mistakes, tacking on shifts; you know, all of the right
stuff. John steered the Waterat straight and true, often splitting tacks with
the fleet, but a few logistical lapses affected the white boat's final results.
John and Dave will be back and they will have worked out the kinks. The other
story of note is that Mike and Geoff are PUMPED. Their performance improved
with each race. Mike is a bit slowed by educational matters (those pesky
qualifing exams), but we will see the pair a few more times this summer. On
their way home to Bloomington, they looked at a used boat in Dayton. They are
already looking to invest in the class!

After the regatta ended, the club racing began, but by this time, the sky was a
clear blue and the wind had really gotten serious: 25-35 with sharp puffs maybe
to 40. Graham gave Geoff some wire time, and Peter Laudrup crewed for Mike so
that he could see what steering in 35 was like. It didn't last long, though.
The ancient tiller parted from the rudder stock: the sad tow home... Later,
Graham and I launched from the dock, not unlike the space shuttle, and
travelled by close reach about 1 mile in, what, maybe two minutes? After
turning around, aiming at the club, we thought better of it.

David L. Stetson
stetson.1@osu.edu

-----------------

Report from Geoff Cashman on
the 1995 Hoover Spring Regatta


This regatta occured May, 1995, on Hoover Reservoir in Columbus, Ohio

Greetings,

This past weekend I attended my first ever 505 regatta in Columbus, OH.
at the Hoover 505 regatta. There were seven boats present, including the
boat I was on -- a venerable (27 year old) Butler 505, US2987. I joked
with people before the regatta that if anyone brought an older boat,
that I would give them $5. I kept my $5 :-) Of course as luck would have
it, the newest boat present, a 3 year old beautiful Waterat 505 parked
right next to us :-)

Two things really stood out from this weekend.

First, the winds were absolutely awesome. Day 1 featured a fairly
consistent 15, with gusts above 20 occasionally. Day 2 started out
around 15 and kept getting heavier as the day went on. The peak was
somewhere around 30 with heavy gusts higher than that. INCREDIBLE fast
action for all boats involved.

Second, my skipper (Mike Goldstein) and I were competing as a team for
the first time, and it was his first 505 regatta too. The amount of
support and comradeship was even more amazing than the wind. I have
never ever seen a more helpful bunch of people.

As for our 505, we broke a few things on her in the heavy winds, but
that's to be expected. All were easily fixed, and she really came
through like a champ despite her age. Travelling along at somewhere
around warp 7 beating to weather, fully extended out on the wire, the
boom looking like one big smiley face, everything else in life just
paled in comparison that day. We've never had our venerable 505 out in
winds like that, and she just sang.

Oh yeah, well, we did come in last overall, but we did manage to beat
one boat in each of three races! :-) Each race we got better and better.
The last race, we were actually ahead of two boats for a while, though
one ended up passing us.

I also had the distinct pleasure of getting two rides onboard Graham
Alexander's boat, US7685. The second time he treated me to an incredible
reach..winds around 30-35, me flat on the trap about 2/3rd of the way
back on the boat, the boat flat and nearly out of the water...I have no
idea how fast we were going but we could have given cars a run for their
money...it was intense! We joked saturday night about superman capes
that say "warning: does not enable wearer to" fly". i think 505s should
have a label saying "WARNING: ENABLES WEARER TO FLY!!""

I have to say that the combination of the 505 being a high end racing
machine and the group of 505 sailors being so incredibly helpful makes
this class awfully attractive as a permanent home. I've tried a few
other classes, and this one is heads above...

Geoff Cashman
cashman@satori.ucs.indiana.edu
