505 East Coast Championship, September 22-24, WRSC Galesville MD

About 24 teams participated in the '95 East Coasts, with several coming
some distance to race. These included Dan Treadwell and Scott MacKay
from Texas in Scott's recently acquired Waterat, Rick Leir with Ron
Hughes from Ottawa at the helm of Ron's 17 year old Lindsay 6910, Jeff
Boyd from Kingston, with John Fry substituting for Martin tenHove, and
John Dohan/Bill Beardslee from the midwest/San Francisco. There were
a number of new faces, either people who had just gotten into the 505
class, or others who were traveling to regattas for the first time.
Welcome to George Saunders, Beth Wieser, Stu Kelly, Warren Mangan and
Barney Harris.

Not everyone was able to sail all three days, and many boats missed some
races. At least one boat never made it out to the race course (after
several capsizes in the river Saturday morning, they wisely decided to
call it a day).

All races used gate starts. There were seven races over three days
(2,3,2). The first race Friday started in a planing upwind breeze that
quickly died below marginal trapezing and stayed light for the second
race. Nelson/Alarie's 2,1 put them slightly ahead of Meller/Johnson's
1,3 after Friday. A storm/squall that hit as the leader's finished the
second race caused quite some excitement, and some torn sails. Everyone
enjoyed (NOT!) sailing around under jib only in 35-40+ knots, with
driving rain. Getting the main down wasn't difficult, but rolling it up
so it wouldn't be creased under foot - while sailing the boat - was fun.
Several teams decided to leave the main up and fight it out. It is
amazing what you can do in very heavy air with max rake and bend! Once
the wind abated most boats sailed in, though some were towed (hence the
ruined jibs). Barry Kuehl's decision to have Rondar 8311 rigged with
a jib furler made him look like a genius. No-one was hurt, and apart
from sails, minimal damage was done.

Saturday started with 20 plus knots - down to 18 by the first race
- from the Northeast, which died in the course of the day.
Meller/Johnson had a noticeable speed advantage in the puffs (and even
managed to pick a few shifts that others did not), and came out of the
day with a 1,1,2 versus Nelson/Alarie's 5,3,1, to lead overall. The chop
made sailing upwind tough, and worked crews and boats hard. Several
teams capsized including both "classic division" entries. Unfortunately
both these very old boats had leaky tanks, and both teams had to be
rescued as their boats could not be sailed in, though Wieser/Kelly in
Stu's beautifully restored vintage Parker, 3885, finished Saturday's
second race, wisely decided one race was enough, but ran into problems
on the way in. This reminded everyone of the need to seal leaky tanks.
None of us expect to spend much time capsized, but it could happen to
any of us. Check the "fixing up older 505s" article on the WWW home page
for suggestions on finding and fixing leaks in tanks.

On Sunday, in lighter breezes, Nelson/Alarie returned to their top form,
working their way up to win the first race, pulling them into a tie with
Meller/Johnson, and then sailing to second in the last race, while
Meller/Johnson were deep. This gave the 1995 East Coast Championship to
'93 and '94 North American champions Macy Nelson/Peter Alarie, the first
ECC win for either of them.

We were sharing the water with trolling sport fishermen. Down the run in
the first race Sunday trying to get back into contact with the leaders,
we bore off very low to try to avoid fishing lines astern of a trolling
power boat. We thought we were clear, luffed back up to our preferred
dowwind angle and focused on getting to the mark as fast as possible.
A little while later, some faint tearing sounds distracted me, and then
I noticed what looked like a thread streaming tight off the leach of the
spinnaker. MONOFILAMENT!!! A few moments later a lure and weight went
flying by, fortunately without staying hooked on us. Given our
performance in the race, being hooked and reeled in seemed appropriate.
While several stitches in the spinnaker were broken, the fabric was not
torn.

Trotman/Mills won the last race and took 3rd overall. Jeff Boyd sailing
with John Fry were 4th, while Fowler/Dyson were 5th.

Most considered it a successful event. The ribs and chicken, Sam Adams
draft beer, and additional prizes for the furthest distance driven
(Texas), driver of the gate boat (Louise Van Voorhis brought her own
rigid bottom inflatable and was recruited as gate launch), "winners" of
classic division, and the two newest boat owners (both in fleet 19) were
appreciated. Thanks to Railrider for the vests and the bag; they are
wonderful prizes.

