https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/273191/2024-505-Euro-Cup-in-San-Raphael-overall

024 505 Euro Cup in San Raphael - Overall

by International 505 Class Association 3 Apr 07:05 BST

29-31 March 2024

The first 505 Europa Cup of 2024 took place at the charming venue of St
Raphael in the south of France, hosted by Club Nautique de St Rachael.

The 505 Europa Cup circuit consist of four events over the season,
taking us to some exciting and interesting venues. The race track at St
Raphael is located in a beautiful Bay, with easy launching from the Club
giving a short sail out to the race track.

Many of the 35 teams from 7 countries had arrived early to get some
practice in and knock off the winter rust. These teams had ample time to
get used to the big breeze that stuck around for the entire event and
enjoy the fine food and wine the region is known for.

The racing kicked off on Friday and the fleet were greeted with
a building breeze. Starting off in the mid teens and building well in to
the twenties with gusts well over 30 knots. For early in the season this
was a challenge for many of the teams, but the front of the fleet
handled it well. First blood went to the British team of Ian Pinnell
crewed by Irish sailor Charles Dwyer. While many boats struggled for
consistency the USA team of Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel sailing their
brand new P&B rigged boat put down the marker with a 3,1,1 first day,
opening up a good lead from Mike Daisenberger and Johannes Tellen from
Germany and Pinnell and Dywer in 3rd.

Saturday brought more of the same, a puffy and shifty offshore Easterly
of 15-25 knots. Holt and Woelfel started in the same vein, winning race
4 but opened the door slightly to everyone with a 6th in Race 5. This
was won by Jan-Phillip Hoffman and Felix Brocherhoff from Germany from
Pinnell and Dywer with US team of Howard Hamill and Jeff Nelson 3rd. At
the end of Day 2, Holt and Woelfel led from Pinnell and Dywer with
Hoffman and Brockerhoff third.

The final day on Sunday was looking like it would be different, the wind
was down under 10 knots and there was rain forecast. The fleet launched
without much optimism but the pessimism would be for nothing as St
Raphael produced another great day of sailing with the breeze around 15
to 20 knots, good waves and a mix of sunshine and showers. Hoffman and
Brockerhoff tried to make it interesting by winning race 6, but Holt and
Woelfel kept their scoreline tidy to finish second and Hamlin and Nelson
finished 3rd to make 2nd through 5th very tight. Going into the last
race, Holt and Woelfel had it tied up, but completed a dominant regatta
win with a runaway win in the last race. Hoffman and Brockerhoff
finished 2nd but a 3rd for Daisenberger and Tellen was enough to take
2nd overall by a point. A tie for third was won by Hoffman and
Brockerhoff leaving Hamlin and Nelson in 4th and another point back were
Pinnell and Dywer in 5th.

Next up on the Europa Cup circuit is the iconic Riva on Lake Garda. That
just about gives you time to find a 505 and make it there!

