Mid Atlantic Regatta at WRSC

By Allan Johnson

On June 10-11 1995, twelve 5o5's showed up for a Mid-Atlantic regatta held at
West River Sailing Club. These were mostly resident 5o5's, with a handful of
boats that made the three hour drive north from the Hampton area. One boat that
probably had not splashed in the Chesapeake Bay in quite some time was 7099,
Charles Smith's new boat, formerly of Haberland fame in Florida.

This regatta was a Star Class qualifier that they generously let us crash; for
some reason those guys think we are OK. The weather that greeted the sailors
was sunny blue skies, with heat and humidity. Unfortunately this teased the sea
breeze, and although we had some great racing, the breeze topped out at about
eleven, and sometimes it was lower. We had three good races on Saturday. The
first two were modified Olympic courses with finishes downwind, which made for
some very tactical finishing legs, running against the tide. The last race was
a true Olympic, and no matter where you finished, you were glad when you did,
because the RC handed you two beers for the sail in. Of course this is when the
breeze came up and you've never seen so many happy crews screaming along on the
trapeze with a beer in one hand and the spinnaker sheet in the other. Newcomer
to the class Matthew Edwards remarked upon reaching the beach, "man, i knew
they were fast, but i didn't know they were that fast!!"

The results showed Kenny Elliott/Alan Kilgore leading the regatta, with
Jonathan \Phillips/Mike Smith firmly placed in second. A couple of nice
occurrences worth mentioning were North American Champion Macy Nelson crewing
for Charles Smith and giving him a thorough introduction to the class, and Ali
Meller (absent due to racing in the Canadians and NAs) lent his 7772 to Doug
Amthor, who recruited a first time 5o5 sailor, and these two were blazing fast
at times upwind. Mike Smith did a great job organizing this event, and the
entry fee was only $5.00!

On Sunday, the Star class must have gotten to the RC, because we had some
loooong races. The weather mark was invisible from the start line, and after
going upwind for about twenty minutes, I almost told my skipper to crack off
for the Gybe mark (thinking it was the weather mark) but cooler heads (the
skipper's) prevailed and we continued on. The reaches were great, because they
were soooo looooong and wet, but the runs were Hot! and I don't mean fast, I
mean HOT, despite most teams being dressed in shorts and t-shirts.

After the two races on Sunday, Elliott/Kilgore had won the event.
Phillips/Smith were second, with Rene de la Rie/Allan Johnson in 3rd. In
probably the oldest and most thrashed boat, with ragged sails, class stalwart
Pete Wallio and A.J. Piccillo used consistency to place fourth. A great
regatta, a great turnout, and many newcomers to the 5o5 class left WRSC with a
big grin on their face.
