1995 Hampton Trapeze

Hampton Yacht Club, Hampton Virginia

For those who have not previously attended, the annual Hampton Trapeze regatta
is for the local Hampton One Design class, and the International 505. This
year's event, held the 13-14 of May, continued the tradition of great Hampton
Yacht Club events.

This year, the 505s turned the tables on the Hamptons by having the larger
turnout, and by converting a Hampton One Design sailor to the 505 (more to
follow, as two 505s were being raced by people eager to get into the class).
The Hamptons also decided not to race on Sunday, perhaps being scared off by
the forecast 13 knot winds rain (and threat of storm). As always, Hampton Yacht
Club provided an excellent RC, and great fun. Hampton Roads, sight of the first
battle of the ironclads, is an interesting place to sail. Seven races were
scheduled - four Saturday and three Sunday - but only 5 were raced, as
lightning caused the shortening of Sunday's first race and the cancellation of
the remaining two. Saturday's races were held in a light to medium westerly,
while Sunday's race was in a stronger Easterly (and lots of rain!). An ebb tide
on both days made starts and mark roundings a little more interesting than
usual.

Racing was close - closer than the scores would indicate. The second race was
particularly close, with Ali Meller/Kevin Eley and Jim Englert/Thad Melton
trading off the lead each leg, and Ken Elliot/Allan Kilgore never more than 4
boatlengths behind. Meller/Eley lead at the last windward mark (after leebowing
Englert/Melton twice, and pinning them to the starboard layline), with
Englert/Melton 3 feet behind, and Elliot/Kilgore just behind them. A three boat
gybing duel ensued. Three quarters of the way down the run, Meller/Eley on port
chose to gybe to starboard rather than duck Englert/Melton, who promptly gybed
back to port towards the rhumb line. The three boats met again just before the
(leeward) finish, with Englert/Melton gybing from starboard to port a couple of
boatlengths to port of Meller/Eley, and Elliot/Kilgore trying to get on
Meller/Eley's wind, 3 boatlengths back. Every wave counted as the three boats
approached the line. Elliot/Kilgore went high, taking Meller/Eley's wind, and
threatening Englert/Melton. The pair went slightly higher, giving them better
speed, but allowing Meller/Eley a little bit of air so they could surf down one
more wave, more perpendicular to the line. It was too close to call at the
finish. The RC informed the teams that Meller/Eley had nosed across in front of
Englert/Melton, with Elliot/Kilgore a couple of lengths back.

Saturday's racing ended early enough to allow time to prepare for the Hampton
Yacht Club Flag Raising, and to watch the Kiwis finish driving the stake
through Dennis Connor's heart

GO KIWIS!

Fortunately, the Kiwis dispatched TDC early enough that everyone could make it
to Kevin and Sue's place for a BBQ and party. I seem to recall a late night
creek cruise in the Amthor's newly rebuilt support boat, but my memories of
Saturday evening are a little vague......

Sunday's race saw Meller/Eley lead all the way around, though with
Elliot/Kilgore within 5 boatlengths or less. At the leeward mark,
Elliot/Kilgore tacked immediately to port, with Meller/Eley tacking to cover. A
slight lefty, closed the gap, such that Elliot/Kilgore had to duck Meller/Eley
when they tacked to starboard half way up the beat. They tacked back onto
Meller/Eley's weather quarter. The incoming storm provided a convenient right
shift, such that Meller/Eley had to duck Elliot/Kilgore when they bailed out
and tacked. The wind then shifted back to the left, putting Elliot/Kilgore
ahead, but with both boats close to the new layline. Meller/Eley were able to
use the shift and the puffs to get to the line first, with Elliot/Kilgore
footing for speed and planing fast, but not able to use their height to catch
Meller/Eley. The RC sent the fleet in, giving the regatta to Meller/Eley.

Light weights Jim Englert/Thad Melton never won a race, but were always in the
hunt, finishing 2nd. "fat boys" Jonathan Phillips/Mike Smith won race 3, and
finished 3rd overall. Elliot/Kilgore were 4th, while Henry and Doug Amthor won
race 4 and finished 5th overall.

The best quote of the weekend was heard from Ken Elliot, after everyone could
see lightning in the distance. As Meller/Eley power ducked Elliot/Kilgore near
the finish of the last race, planing at about 10 knots, they heard Ken yell, "i
love the smell of ozone in the morning"
