https://www.seabreeze.com.au/News/Sailing/Findel-and-Tennel-are-505-European-Champions_1913046.aspx

Findel and Tennel are 505 European Champions

Jens Findel and Johannes Tennel of Germany are the new 505 European
champions. The European championship finished Thursday with the German
pair just where they started, leading the event from race one.

In the overall Open event ranking the USA led with Ethan Bixby and Erik
Boothe, '81 World Champions winning the final race to be three points
clear of the new European Champions, Findel and Tennel of Germany. Then
the '99 World Champion, Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn, giving some
indication of the likely major players in the Worlds event.

They only placed tenth place on the final day but Findel and Tennel
controlled their nearst rivals, Jan Saugmann, and Morten Ramsbaek of
Denmark, the reigning World Champions, who came only 30th today, and
second in the Euros.

In third place overall in the Europeans, Britain's Ian Pinnell and Carl
Gibbon, rose by nearly ten positions after their fifth place today. For
Pinnel, a great sailor with 35 golds from global, european and national
titles, sailor of the year in 1991, this is a good result leading to the
races Saturday, when the World title will start.

'The field is perfect -- Pinnel said - and we have come to Palermo to
win the World Cup, we will try, we will be among the challengers.'

The strong American presence looks ominous for the Worlds, although
racing has been in light winds. Also placing well have been the
Australian pair Nick Davis and Mike Duffield, 11 in the Euros, and the
Irish pair Ewen Barry and Charles Dwyer in tenth place.

-----

European Championships 2008 – Revised Result
 Created: Tuesday, 12 May 2009 18:57
 Written by Simon Lake

At the Pre- Worlds / European Championships held at Palermo, Italy last
November the 1st and 2nd place finishers in the overall results were
Ethan Bixby / Erik Boothe USA (7 points) and Jens Findel / Johannes
Tellen GER (10 points).

The title of European Champion and the European Championship Trophy was
awarded to Jens and Johannes based on the assumption that a Non-European
resident was ineligible to be declared the winner.

This outcome has been challenged and the I.E.C. referred the matter to
the Chairman of ISAF Rules Committee for a ruling.

After due scrutiny of the Class Rules, the Notice of Race and the
Sailing Instructions, the ruling has determined that the event was an
“Open” event with the lowest point scorer able to be declared the
winner.

As a result of this ruling, Ethan Bixby and Erik Boothe have been
declared “2008 European Champions” and the Class Records have been
amended accordingly.

International Executive Committee, 12th May, 2009


