Hi-Per '99

This years HI-PER regatta was full of close, competitive racing. The fleet was
surprisingly close even with only 7 boats. Saturday was sunny and warm with
winds from 5 knots in the morning to about 10-12 for the last (and sixth) race
that day. On Saturday, many different competitors won races and the shorter
courses made things tight around all marks. Great racing. California Yacht Club
did a great job of running lots of races with very little waiting in between.
The day's racing was topped off with Carlos the beer-man greeting us at the
dock with our favorite kind of beer. (Free and Cold). Then, after observing the
North American Championships of beer-induced bull shitting. (Danny Thompson Vs.
Robin Brown), Cal Yacht Club served up a tasty dinner.

Sunday's weather was a little different with a storm rolling through and it
blew 18-25 knots, and rained. It reminded me of St. Francis. Again the racing
extremely tight with little margins for error. The young "Buckman" (7771) found
this out the hard way as he rounded the first mark first and proceeded to end
up fourth. Thanks to all the Northern California sailors for making the trek
and many thanks to Cal YC for the best racing of the year. They got off six
races in one day with minimal waiting in-between, Bravo!

The next event is Santa Cruz in 2 weeks. The PCCs will be in Santa Cruz this
summer so this is a good chance to practice. The southern California fleet will
be coming up in full force so all you nor cal boats better show up as well.

And now for all of those who flaked, here are their excuses:

Kevin Taugher	Wife would not let him go sailing.
Jeff Miller	job interview -NOT-
Rob Waterman	some lame excuse that is not even worthy of making this list.
Andy Zinn	was trying to pick up 14 year old chicks at CISA clinic
John Fracisco	Trying to pick up 45 year old chicks at a womans regatta in Newport Beach (Ed, - actually John reports that he was home sick trying to save Stacie from deathly illness, and cure them both in time to get married this coming weekend). Besides - to be politically correct for just a moment - what's wrong with 45 year old chicks?)
Stacie Straw	Trying to pick up 65 year old dudes at a womans regatta in Newport Beach. (Ed. see above)
Bruce Tilly	Trying to talk some poor sap into marrying his daughter.
Steve Bartzs	forgot.
Bob Little	paying for his USC tuition with his daddy's credit card.
Ed. - Some of the lamest excuses I have ever heard!



Many thanks to Mike Martin for helping with the lame excuses columm.

Have a great day!


