
2001 Western Canadian 505 Championships & Classic 505 Championships

August 25-26, Kitslano Yacht Club - Vancouver, B.C.

Report By Stephen Lovshin

The Trip: 4 Hours by Train, 4 Hours by Plane, and 12 hours by Mini Van - one way
The Fleet: 7 Vancouver Boats, 1 Seattle Boat, 1 Oregon/Scotland Combo, and 1 Edmonton/Ottawa Combo.
Priceless: 2 days of tight 505 racing in English Bay under sunny skies and breezes varying from 8 15 knots awesome!
Cynthia Des Brisay, Charles Hansen and the rest of the Fleet 1 505ers from Vancouver hosted a fabulous two day regatta to determine two championships for Western Canadian bragging rights.

The first day produced many closely fought battles amongst the fleet. Conditions consisted of a sunny 10-15 knots. At the front of the fleet, Hayley/Cummins, Plumbley/Cumming, Des Brisay/Hansen, and Cragg/Cross were continuously within 10 boats lengths of each other (well maybe not that close...). Plumbley/Cumming stood in first place following completion of Saturday s 5 races.

In the classic 505 class, which was scored as a separate regatta, Saturday s racing results had Brown/Lovshin in first, followed by Von Grey/Lofgren, the Scottish team ex pat Sinclair/ real pat Sinclair, and Kamon/Baranszky.

Sunday offered variable sailing conditions, with four races sailed in 8 - 12 knot breezes with lots of beautiful Vancouver Sun - The Real Thing! Again, the top boats maintained close battles however, Allan/Beckler, Von Grey/Lfogren, and Brown/Lovshin made their regatta presence known to the top boats by battling for mark rounding honors throughout.

When the final whistle was blown, Plumbley/Cumming captured a 1-point victory over Hayley/Cummins, with Des Brisay/Hansen a few points back. Of particular note, Plumbley regained this title, one that he had previously captured in the 80 s.

In the Classic event, Brown/Lovshin held off the strong charge by the American boats of Von Grey/Lofgren and Sinclair/Sinclair to keep the classic fleet rights in Canada.... but move them eastward to Alberta where the boat resides.

Special mention goes to Tibor Trainor and Miklos Baranskzy for the fact that they have sailed 505s at various times since the 60 s. Keep it up gentlemen.

A big "Cheers" goes out to Cynthia for putting together a fabulous event. Many thanks to the regatta committee who s race course crew created and maintained superb race courses; this includes a Thanks to the one and only Mr. T (Van 505er) who worked on providing Saturday s race courses.

Canadian 505 Class Issues as Discussed:

The Vancouver 505 fleet is competitive. This group has worked hard to raise the sailing level to a very respectable level. All the fleet boats use the same sail program, rig set up, which translates in a very competitive fleet. All fleets can learn from their experiences.

A new double trailer initiative is beginning to form, with talk of developing dollies as well. Cooperative efforts between the Vancouver fleet and the U.S. Pacific Northwest Fleet are being discussed. Note: the Canadian Class has a double trailer subsidy program.

There is plenty of concern, from a West Coast perspective, regarding the spinnaker measurement changes due to come into effect this fall. Currently, little has been discussed on a national level (i.e., between all Canadian 505ers) on this point. Information regarding any new developments or modifications undertaken by any Canadian fleet should be disseminated amongst all the Canadian fleets. ( Note: A report from the Fleet four big chute experiment needs to be passed along to others. To be completed by me when I get back to eastern Canada!)

The Canadian Championships are currently being planned. An attempt will be made to run the event in Squamish, B.C., which is the premier boardsailing destination in Western Canada. The Vancouver fleet ran a 505 regatta there this year, which was successful. Coordination of the 2002 Canadians will involve coordinating dates with the Pacific Coast Championship, which will possibly be sailed on the Gorge in Oregon. The idea is to have both events run very close to one another other to facilitate participation from out of town boats at each event. Both parties are awaiting decision on the dates for the North American Championships before any dates are set for these events.

Canadian 505 sailors now have access to a new Canadian distributor of Proctor Spars. Transat Marine (www.transatmarine.com) has added an inventory of 505 parts to their product offering. John Osborne (1976 Olympic Gold Medal Tornado Class) runs this business and wants to continue to build dingy sailing in Canada. Shona and I visited his shop earlier this summer. While we were there, he phoned Proctor in the U.K. and ordered a mast, boom, sinnaker pole, and pole launcher fitting in order to develop the Transat Marine inventory. This should help Canadian 505 sailors by ensuring that they do not have to order Proctor equipment from the U.K. directly. He is serious about supporting dinghy sailing in Canada.

505 interest in Alberta is still alive. Wabuman Sailing Club possesses five 505s; Calgary is home to a couple. There may some rejuvenation of interest for attending Alberta 505 events as James Brown showed here at the Western Classic 505 Champs that he is now the guy to beat from Alberta! How about a regatta or training session next year? Remember the Canadians a few years back in 97? What a blast!

Quantum Sails of North Vancouver supported this event with a draw prize. Most importantly, Davey Cross of Quantum is willing to work with interested 505ers to modify current spinnakers to meet the larger dimension requirements later this fall. He obtained first hand experience with the 505 while sailing with Phil Cragg in the races. I believe he can be contacted via the web at www.quantamsails.com (or something like that). Welcome Davey!
&&&&&&&&&& that ' s all from the co-Prezzzzzzzzz.
Results
2001 505 Western Canadians

1. Ian Plumbley / Mark Cummins 15
2. John Hayley / Winston Cummins 16
3. Cynthia Des Brisay / Charles Hansen 19
4. Phil Cragg / Davey Cross 24
5. Andy Allan / Randy Beckler 42
6. James Brown / Stephen Lovshin 51
7. Paul Von Grey / Chris Lofgren 55
8. Stuart Sinclair / Iain Sinclair 62
9. Brain Trainor / Peter Ord 63
10. Tibor Kamon / Miklos Baranszky 79

2001 505 Western Classic Canadians

1. James Brown / Stephen Lovshin 14
2. Paul Von Grey / Chris Lofgren 17
3. Stuart Sinclair / Iain Sinclair 25
4. Tibor Kamon / Miklos Baranszky 39

