Blaine Pedlow
14 Jun 2022, to Bellingham, 505

This past weekend brought another fantastic event to the Pacific
Northwest, with a broad range of conditions that catered perfectly to
all teams. We were lucky to have great RC work from a volunteer group
and plenty of camaraderie after racing. The June Belligham Regatta was
one not to be missed!

Despite a sub-optimal forecast showing the Southerly breeze knocked down
by what seems like an interminable 6 months of rain, sailors arrived at
the CBC on Saturday to see breeze in the low double-digits and the sun
shining! The RC, led by NAs veteran John Pedlow, knocked off races
promptly at noon, with wire running conditions for the first two races.

In the first race, Miles and Paul rounded the weather mark first with
Elsa and Blaine nipping close behind. Elsa got the jump on the hoist and
was able to get over the top of Miles/Pihl, forcing them to gybe away.
A the first leeward, 9009 led followed by 8829 and the father/son team
of Mike and Drew Punnett. With the left paying hard on the beats, Elsa
and Blaine led the group to layline and continued on for the win.
Miles/Paul finished in a tight second, with the Punnetts in a close
third.

Race two was a sprint, as the RC stretched the course but sent the fleet
on a one-lapper. Elsa and Blaine led wire-wire, with Miles/Paul and Team
Punnett in a close battle for 2nd. Ian/Colin found their groove in the
trapezing conditions, coming in a tight 4th and Andrea/Tom with
a competitive 5th, pushing into the top group for the race.

Race 3 was led from the start by Miles and Paul, who would have won
handily except for a confusion on the course number. Normally, we'd
expect challenges with single-digit integers from Fleet 35 members, but
we are flagging this concern here, as Miles is an accountant and Paul
a HS educator...! Elsa and Blaine were the beneficiaries of the mistake,
and sailed along to victory, with Mike and Drew close behind. Miles and
Paul staged an impressive recovery to 3rd.

As the breeze dropped throughout the day, Pierre and Ben found their
groove, finishing the day with a 4-3-2 in the sit-running conditions.
The Fighting Ladies (Mike and Jon) were missing their usual speed in the
light conditions, but they'd soon figure that out for Sunday. Drew
Punnett logged his first (likely of many) race wins in Race 4. Elsa and
Blaine finally tested the limits of their concentration and hunger in
the last race Saturday, confirming that indeed starting astern and to
leeward of your competition is a tricky location...

Sunday brought a new day and new direction, with some of the fleet
holding ashore while the RC waited for Westerly breeze to stabilze. Once
it did, three more races rounded out the series in 5-8 knot conditions.
Mike and Drew sailed a strong first race and passed two boats on the 1st
run to score a victory, while Elsa and Blaine kept it close enough to
Miles/Paul and Pierre/Ben on the first legs to get by in the shifting
breeze on the 2nd beat. With grass strewn around the course from the
Nooksack River at high water, keeping your boards clear was a critical
skill, especially on the right-hand side of the course.

Race 8 saw Mike and Jon regain their form, with a tremendous low mode on
the runs and speed to burn on the beats. These guys are quick in light
air! The fleet was tight over 2-lap course, with four boats finishing
overlapped at the finish.

Wrapping up the series, Elsa and Blaine sailed to a wire-wire win in
Race 9, looking especially strong once the trapeze started to come into
play. Pierre and Ben were peaking late, finishing Sunday with a 3-3-2.

Some notes in conclusion:
- Elsa and Blaine wrapped up the series with a strong win, mostly
  powered by consistent finishes, peanut butter cookies, and good
  all-around speed upwind and down.
- A word about the Punnetts - Mike is likely to show up with family to
  sail any number of events. Be warned! Carol may be the world's best
  mini-505 crew, and Drew, while a 505 novice, is an elite athlete. The
  505 gene runs deep in this crew, and they brought their A-game, two
  vans, family and three dogs. The 505 experience, refined. Bravo!
- Every team managed to finish last in a race. Normally I wouldn't say
  this is a good thing, but I think it speaks to the overall quality of
  the racing and of how one mistake could very easily put you in a tough
  spot. The fleet is deep!
- If you weren't here you missed a good regatta with great competition
  and conditions. No excuses next time!

  Many thanks due to our volunteers - John Pedlow, Em Derenne, Joyce
  Pedlow, Craig Cooper, Stefan and Kira! Great work making this
  regatta run smoothly.
