https://usa505.org/mcnay-and-paine-take-midwinters-title/

McNay and Paine take Midwinters Title
By Dave Kirkpatrick February 14, 2022


Class newcomers Stu McNay and Caleb Paine bested a star-studded fleet over 4
races sailed out of the Clearwater Community Sailing Center on February 12-13.
Saturday’s marginal forecast proved optimistic to reality, with the RC
helpfully running practice starts and short beats but without enough breeze to
run a complete race, sending the fleet in at 230p. With a maximum 4 races per
day, there was no possibility of a throwout race on Sunday.

Sunday provided another short wait before a more southerly-than-expected breeze
came in allowing a course axis of 220 for a 4 leg windward leeward. Local
favorites Ethan Bixby and Ted Huebner played rabbit and dutifully won the first
beat, with McNay and Paine picking their way through the fleet to take the W.
The second race started off with similar conditions but a huge right shift with
good pressure came at the beginning of the second beat, rewarding those on the
right and hammering boats on the left. Stu and Caleb notched a 6th with World
Champs Mike Martin and Adam Lowry taking out the win to hold a slim lead over
McNay/Paine and Mike Punnett/Rich Mundell.

The breeze bounced around a bit more before going even farther right and
stabilizing into good wire running strength, and McNay/Paine scored a wire to
wire win over perennial favorites Holt and Woelfel to regain the series lead as
Martin and Lowry scored and uncharacteristic 7th. With a stacked fleet and no
throwouts there was plenty to be gained and lost in the final 6 leg race, which
started in champagne conditions but a brutal chop on starboard tack. Mayhem and
mishaps featured at every top mark and mixed the fleet, but McNay and Paine
were able to pick through the bones to take second over the line and first in
the series over Martin and Lowry, with Punnett and Mundell third overall.

Though newcomers to the 505 fleet, McNay and Paine are no strangers to the top
of the leaderboard, with 5 Olympics and a bronze medal between them. Stu
chalked their edge up to great transitional work in the dynamic breeze
conditions, and depowering later than other boats which left the with a height
edge over the other front line contenders. Their downwind speed was also
impressive, and they’ll start the North Americans on Thursday among the
favorites for a title.

Thanks to CCSC for once again hosting a wonderful Midwinters, and stay tuned as
we re-take the course on Thursday for what promises to be one of the most
hard-fought North Americans in years.

