https://www.facebook.com/groups/cb505/posts/4636642919774642/

West River Spring Regatta, 4/30-5/1

Despite a weekend forecast that said “bring bikes, badminton sets, and plenty
of beers,” a 9-strong 505 fleet and a few cats were treated to 2 days of great
racing at this year’s West River Spring. Once again PRO’d by Heidi Bay and with
Ali Meller providing on water coaching, travel teams outnumbered the locals but
ultimately couldn’t overcome them in the results.

Many teams were either sailing together or racing together for the first time.
Macy and Russ team swapped with Nate and Robert to help move the learning
curves along, which is wonderful to see, where other teams like Peter
Scannell/Mike Renda, Sterling Spruill and Dave K, and Kelsey and RJ matched up
due to unavailable regular partners. Watson pere et fils and the Brothers
Breton seemed to prove that families can sail together peacefully and
productively. 

Saturday started off with moderate trapping under bright sunshine and cool air
temps and an almost due east breeze. Kelsey and RJ (standing in for the injured
Curtis Hartmann) made the right moves and the fewest mistakes to take out the
first win, and then Sterling and Dave flipped the script to take race 2 ahead
of Kelsey and RJ, with Macy and Nate in 3rd both times. Duane and Mike mastered
the shifts to take race 3 and then Kelsey and RJ closed out the day with a win
as the breeze got too light to do much with. 

After day one, it was Kelsey and RJ with a bit of a buffer and then a clump
with Sterling/Dave, Duane/Mike, Macy/Nate, Rob/Russ, and Peter/Mike all within
shouting distance. The excellent debrief focused on appropriate twist in the
main leech (not much at all), getting the main flat enough down low, and
getting weight forward enough downwind in Rondar hulls. 

Sunday was cloudy but at least the flags were flapping a bit. The head full of
scotch from Barney’s birthday celebration Saturday night did wonders for
Sterling and Dave as they took out the first two to put some heat on Kelsey and
RJ. Scannell and Renda also found the gears, as did Duane and Mike. Kelsey and
RJs ability to make boats up late in the race was either amazing or maddening
depending on your perspective. Unlike Saturday, the breeze was on the way up on
Sunday, with Peter and Mike trap running on the regatta’s last run to make a
huge gain that just failed to topple Duane and Mike. Kelsey and RJ beat
Sterling/Dave in a “who beats who wins the regatta” showdown to take the
flowers, with Duane and Mike taking out 3rd.

Packing up in a rainstorm is always a joy but it didn’t put a damper on a great
opener to the 2022 season. Next stop Wickford in June.

