Mike Holt Mike.Holt@iointegration.com via googlegroups.com 2022-10-12 02:52

The 2022 edition of the 505 Pacific Coast Championship’s took place this last
weekend over 3 days and 10 amazing races. Not just was it the PCC’s, it was
effectively a dry run for next years World Championships on the same water at
the same time of year. We had 28 entered and 26 on the start line for the
event.

Before racing started several teams spent the week training, sailing in perfect
conditions with wind generally in the mid to high teens every day, filling in
around 12:30 and lasting into the evening. Full glamour conditions.

Friday morning and race 1, Bruce and Matt did duty getting us under way for the
first of the 10 races as the pathfinder. John Siegel and his crew of volunteers
did a great job of setting up square courses and good lengths. The wind was
essentially building all day, starting at around 12 knots, probably topping out
just short of 20. The races were all 2 lap windward/leeward, and around 35 to
40 minutes in length. Fast out of the blocks was Howie and Jeff, with 2 wins,
the next 2 then went to new World Champion, Stu McNay sailing with Eric
Anderson. Leaving them on top by a point from Mike and Carl, with Howie and
Jeff a few further back. Racing was tight all through the fleet and private
battles and rivalries taking place all over the place.

Saturday was raced in a little bit less breeze, probably topping out at 16
knots, still giving great racing. The wind was a little lighter, probably as
the fog had not completely cleared the race track, putting navigating up there
in the needed skill set. This didn’t really change the results much with Stu
and Eric getting a couple more wins in, Mike and Carl hanging as close as
possible. Mike and Adam found the go button for their borrowed  boat, with a
couple of good results and many other teams pushing the “established names”
very hard. The 1,2,3 was still the same and the event was all still in the
balance.

Three more races on Sunday and Mike and Carl got into winning ways, however Stu
and Eric snuck through for an important 2nd. At the top mark in the 9th race it
looked interesting for a bit, with Mike and Carl leading and Stu/Eric down the
fleet away. However, kelp on the second beat let Mike and Adam through to lead
and win the race and at the last mark Stu and Eric squeezed past for a 2nd.
Giving them the event. To wrap it up in style they also took the last race from
guest star Nick Adamson making his once every four year appearance on Sunday
enjoying the conditions with Steve to record a 2nd place finish in the last
race.

Great sailing, good people, tough competition, what more could you want? If we
have the same conditions in a years time it will be an amazing Worlds!
