http://hem.passagen.se/waterat/helsinki.htm

HELSINGFORS VM 1987
VM-guld kröner många års svenska framgångar i 5o5

Efter femton år i klassen och en andraplats i VM förra året lyckades det
äntligen för Krister Bergström, GKSS, att bli världsmästare i 505.
Tillsammans med gasten Olle Wenrup seglade han en jämn, vinstgivande
serie när regattan avgjordes i Helsingfors i mitten av juli.

Krister Bergström, 30, har legat i 505-toppen i många år, och hela
80-talet har han jagat världsmästartiteln, 4:a 1980, 5:a 1982, 9:a 1983
och 2:a 1986, då han hårfint missade VM-segern. I år var det upplagt för
revansch, nästan på hemmaplan och med rutinerade gasten Olle Wenrup vid
sin sida (Wenrup har under 17 år gastat åt Ebbe Rosén, en annan av
Sveriges bästa 505-seglare).

Det fanns gott om rutinerade seglare bland de 74 besättningarna från 10
nationer. Bland deltagarna märktes Marcel Buffet, världsmästare 1959 och
1960, och Peter White, mästare 1973. Många i det starka svenska laget
har seglat 505 i över tio år, och det fanns toppbesättningar från
England och Australien.

Seglingarna startade i hårt väder med grov sjö, och seglarna från södra
halvklotet hade nog problem med det kalla vattnet, bara 6-8 grader. Att
kapsejsa var allvarligt i det kyliga vattnet. Emellertid visade
världsmästarna från 1984 Dean Blatchford och Tom Woods från Australien
att de hade utmärkt hårdvindsfart med deras böjliga, självjusterande
Gold Spar mast och Ulmer/Kolius segel.

De tog skottet före landsmännen Stephen och Andrew McConaughy, som 19
resp 20 år gamla seglade sitt första VM. Trea var Bergström/Wenrup före
danskarna Molbech/Strange. Bergström/Wenrup vann därefter nästa race
i mer måttliga vindar före ett annat danskt par Holm/Jensen, medan
Blatchford delade ledningen sammanlagt efter en tredjeplats.

Den tredje seglingen fick avbrytas pga för svaga vindar, och också den
fjärde seglingen gick i lätta och skiftande brisar. Men favoriterna höll
huvudet kallt, med målskott för bröderna McConaghy före Holm/Jensen på
andra plats. Dean Blatchford var mycket nöjd med sin tredje plats:
&quot;Vi tycker bättre om hård vind, och idag hade vi lika gärna kunnat
hamna nere på 50:e plats,&quot; kommenterade australiern, som nu tog
ledningen sammanlagt. Bergström var 5:a bakom Ebbe Rosén/Lars Stugemo,
som nu började klättra uppåt i listan.

I den femte seglingen var vinden lite starkare, men ett kraftigt
vindskift på första kryssen vållade problem för många, Svenskarna Eklund
och Rosén ledde efter första triangeln, med Bergström runt 10:e och
Blatchford sämre än 25:a. Den förre visade utmärkt speed och gick upp
i ledningen på tredje kryssen genom att hålla sig ute på havet, och det
blev målskott för Bergström/Wenrup före amerikanen Jeff Miller och Ebbe
Rosén.

Med Blatchford på 20:e plats hade svenskarna nu en rejäl chans att ta
VM-titeln. De kunde ha råd med en dålig placering att räkna bort i det
sista racet, men om Blatchford vann måste Bergström/Wenrup bli minst
3:a. Australierna var de enda som kunde nå svenskarna, men de måste
komma sämst tvåa och före den svenska båten.

En lätt till måttlig sjöbris blåste den sista dagen, men den var mycket
skiftande vid starten. Bergström och Blatchford valde att starta sent
i grindstarten, och svenskarna fick en kontrollerande position från
början. Blatchfords tycktes sakna fart för att segla förbi, och
Bergström täckte honom i varje slag. Båda låg en bit ner i fältet vid
första märket, och därmed var VM:et avgjort.

Australierna tappade t.o.m.  silvret till Jørgen Holm-Nielsen/Finn Jensen som
vann sista seglingen övertygande. Bergström kunde räkna bort sin 13:e
plats, medan Blatchford måste räkna sin 16:e. På fjärde plats, bara 1.6
poäng efter Blatchford, kom bröderna McConaghy, medan Rosén/Stugemo blev
femma sammanlagt ytterligare 1.7 poäng efter.

Krister Bergströms båt är en tre år gammal Parker med en Proctor D mast
och Rebell segel. Hans båt är ganska komplicerad med många
trimmöjligheter för rigg och segel; detta menar Bergström är en av
hemligheterna bakom segern, just möjligheterna att trimma båten för
olika och föränderliga förhållanden. Och svenskarna hade verkligen
utmärkt speed i såväl måttliga som friska vindar.

Australierna seglade en enklare Kyrwood-båt i plast/balsa sandwich med
en böjlig självjusterande Gold Spar rigg där bara fockfallet, inte
vanten, var trimbart. Skrovet var fem år gammalt och fortfarande styvt
och på minimivikt, varför konstruktionen av dessa båtar måste vara
mycket god.  Det är bra för klassen, jämfört med 470, som ofta tar slut
efter en hård säsong.

- Eyeline

------------------------------------------------------

Sweden's first Worlds
by Robin Whittle


The setting for the 32nd World Championship should have been ideal,
clear of the islands to the south of Helsinki. It was thus disappointing
that the last four days were dominated by very light and variable winds.

This was the second time that Finland has hosted the World Championship.
The first was in 1972 at Hanko, and only two of the sailors could claim
sailing in both. One being the ever buoyant Marcel Buffet, and the other
Rob Napier who came twelfth overall then. It was disappointing that
neither Peter Colclough nor Nigel Buckley were able to take part this
year as they would undoubtedly improved the British results.

One feature of the general weather conditions was the contrast of
temperature when the sun was in and out. After a cloudless day there
were some very sunburnt faces. Yet when out at sea in a blow, the water
and spray were icy (below 9°C). Consequently it was important to dress
up in ones winter gear, Balaclavas and all.

Excellent conditions prevailed for the Pre Worlds which started on
Monday, 6 July, with the intention to have two races a day for three
days. Only four races were completed as a mist persisted until well into
the afternoon of the third day and racing could not take place.

Many of the top sailors treated the Pre Worlds as a tune up, so the
results did not reflect their true potential. Nevertheless, conditions
were ideal, with light winds in the morning, building up to a force four
or five sea breeze in the afternoon. The results gave top honours to
Dean Blatchford and Tom Woods from Down Under, with two firsts and
a second. Three Danes followed with Christensen and Feddersen in second,
Petersen and Storm third and Holm and Jensen in fourth. The Eklund
brothers from Sweden finished fifth. Clive Robinson and John Ironmonger
led the British team in eleventh place.

After two day's measurement, the first race of the Worlds took place on
Saturday, 11 July. The weather was in contrast to the rest of the week,
and it blew hard all day from the south west. In spite of great care
many capsizes occured in the steep lumpy seas, and one of the home club
boats had to be abandoned. The swedish pair, Krister Bergström and Olle
Wenrup, took an early lead, hotly contested by Blatchford and Woods.
Bergström capsized at the beginning of the third beat to allow
Blatchford and his 'countryman', McConaghy, through.  They finished in
that order. Martin Jones and Steve Butcher from Britain started well and
climbed to fourth place, then capsized at the first gybe mark. They
recovered to sixth place, only to repeat the capsize on the second
triangle and did well to finish seventh.

The second race was held in a force three from the south west, which
brought cold showers with it. The two Danish boats, Holm and Jensen, and
Petersen and Storm, were first out of the gate, and reached the windward
mark first and third with Bergström in second place. Peacock and Smith
from Britain were lying sixth, with Jones and Butcher just behind.
Bergström took the lead from Holm on the third beat and steadily opened
this up to finish over three minutes ahead at the end.

Blatchford managed to pass Petersen to finish third, Peacock, who also
overtook Petersen on the third beat, lost this on the final beat to
finish a creditable fifth. Jones finished seventh with Stodel and
Merrett just behind in eighth.

The third race saw the start of completely different conditions, in
which the gradient wind from the north and east was in conflict with the
sea breeze from the south west. The fleet had become accustomed to
a weather briefing each morning from a professional lady Meteorologist.
During the Pre Worlds she had show a quiet uncanny accuracy in
predicting when the sea breeze would start to come in, and received
a round of applause each day for her performance. However, sad to
relate, it was a different matter for the Worlds and 'Madame Isobar', as
she become known, was unable to predict the fickle happenings from this
day on.

The race started with a light wind from the south east. This steadily
dropped until the whole fleet was becalmed. Eventually on the third
beat, the time limit of one hour for each leg caused the race to be
abandoned.

The fourth race was sailed in similar light wind conditions, with
massive wind shifts occuring between the north gradient wind and the
south west sea breeze. It finished with nearly half the fleet not making
the one hour limit. However the top sailors were still up there and the
pathfinder, the McConaghy brothers from Australia, held the lead from
start to finish.  Blatchford fought his way up to second with the Dane
Holm, taking third place. The British pair Napier and Summersgill
rounded the first mark in eighth position, but lost everything during
a 180° wind shift in the last round to finish thirty-first. Robinson and
Ironmonger picked up from nineteenth to finish tenth, while Milanes and
Labbett improved steadily from twenty-fifth at the first mark to finish
eleventh.

An attempt to resail the third race was made on Wednesday, 15 July, but
after the fleet had been becalmed out at sea for five hours this was
abandoned.

The fifth race started in the now familiar uncertain conditions. This
time a 20° wind shift occured as the gate opened, which set the scene
dramatically. Those who went early had an unassailable lead by the first
mark. Bergström and Wenrup picked up from fourteenth to win, with the
Americans, Miller and Maloney, in second. Jones and Butcher were sixth
round the first mark but dropped to finish tenth, closely followed by
Peters and Masterman in twelfth.

The final race was held in bright sunshine with a light wind which was
dominated by the sea breeze from the south. The championship depended on
the close duel between Bergström, on 5.7 points (two firsts and a third
with a fifth as discard) and Blatchford with 11.4 points (a first and
two thirds with twentieth as discard). Bergström, with the advantage,
had to keep Blatchford well down the fleet to achieve the overall
honours.

This was evident from the five minute gun, and the two boats eventually
started late and were thirtieth and fortieth at the first windward mark.
Bergström held his cover to the end finishing thirteenth, leaving
Blatchford in sixteenth position. Whilst this battle was in progress,
Holm played the shifts up the first beat to lead the fleet at the
windward mark. After briefly losing this to Hamlin, he retook the lead
on the last beat to win, thus clinching second place overall. Miller
from America overtook Hamlin on the last beat to finish second. The
British pair Martin Jones and Steve Butcher finished twelfth to take
ninth place overall, the first of the British team.

505 Worlds, July 1987
Organizer: HSK, Helsingfors SegelklubbOverall
74 boats from 10 nations participated.