https://thedailysail.com/dinghy/14/67055/0/sap-505-world-championship-2014-day-five-report

Six still in with a shout
Two point lead still for Holt and Woelfel at the SAP 505 Worlds

Thursday August 21st 2014, Author: Andy Rice / www.sailingintelligence.com, Location: Germany

The pressure is rising for the final race of the SAP 505 World
Championships in Kiel, with the prospect of the trophy going either to
the USA, Great Britain, Australia or Germany...

After a day of whacky races at the SAP 505 World Championship somehow
Mike Holt and Rob Woelfel have managed to cling on to a slender 2-point
lead in Kiel, Germany. In the first, medium-airs race it was the up and
coming Aussies, Pete Nicholas and Luke Payne, who once again
demonstrated an uncanny knack of sniffing out the tricky breeze and
ploughed a lonely furrow out on the left-hand side of the track.

“We’re going fast in the 12-18 knot wind range, and we backed ourselves
to find something good on the left,” said Payne. The Australians,
professional sailors who compete on the Alpari World Match Racing Tour,
did indeed hook into some good breeze to round the first mark in the
lead. Even with the five-time World Champion Wolfgang Hunger and Julien
Kleiner in hot pursuit, the Australians held their nerve and their lead
to the finish, with the Germans in 2nd place.

Perhaps this would be the moment when Dr Hunger would start to turn the
momentum of this regatta on home waters in his favour. However, the wind
had other ideas. The first start of the second race had to be abandoned
after a massive windshift led to a British boat crashing into the
pathfinder, ruining the starting procedure. When the race got underway
again, the wind was light - around 7 to 9 knots - and the 2013 World
Champions Claas Lehmann and Leon Oehme were only too keen to get racing
in their favourite wind strength. They started early out of the gate and
took the early lead, with another light-airs team and fellow Germans,
Meike Schomaker and Holger Jess, not far behind.

At the top mark the leading Germans were still in the lead when the
breeze suddenly blustered up to 15 knots or more. Some boats were caught
short by the quick change in conditions and capsized. But not Schomaker
and Jess who flew down the run and into the lead. Meanwhile, all the
leading contenders for the world title - the young Australians, Hunger,
Mike Holt from the USA and Andy Smith from Great Britain - were stuck in
or near to the back half of the 173-boat fleet having been caught out by
a massive wind shift to the left, which had favoured the early starters
out of the gate.

With an increase in breeze, now it was time for the heavyweights to put
the hammer down and see how much progress they could make through the
fleet during the 75-minute, 3.5 lap race. Ian Pinnell and Dave Shelton
sailed a blinder of a final windward leg to cross the line in 2nd behind
Shomaker and Jess, giving the 2008 World Champion from Great Britain an
outside shot at the world title tomorrow. Fellow Brits Smith and Needham
also salvaged a 6th from a shocking first-mark position, but others like
Holt and Hunger never found a way through. They will be hoping to
discard this race result from the overall scores.

“Good to get two counters out of today,” said a relieved Smith, now
sitting 2 points behind Holt in the overall standings. The former
Fireball World Champion came with the hope of a top 10 place, although
with that goal already ticked off he can start to think about a shot at
the world title. “It’s looking like good breeze tomorrow, so we’ll just
sail the best we can and see how it all turns out at the end.”

Hunger was ruing some missed opportunities today. “We started late on
the right and missed the windshift on the left. Now we have to hope to
sail well tomorrow, but it is looking good for the Americans and
British.” Fellow Germans and last year’s runners up, Stefan Bohm and
Gerald Roos are still in the mix, along with the Aussies who lie in 3rd
place overall, 5 points off the lead. The forecast is saying it will be
medium winds of 12 to 15 knots from the north-west, which is just what
the Australians will be hoping for in their bid to topple the Americans
and Brits ahead of them.

The final race is scheduled to start at 12pm on Friday, with a live
broadcast of all the action.


