https://thedailysail.com/dinghy/10/56206/sap-505-world-championship-report

Hamlin and Zinn take the lead
SAP 505 World Championship gets underway in big conditions in Aarhus

Friday July 30th 2010, Author: Sailing Inteligence, Location: Denmark

With the breeze gusting up to 30 knots, the SAP 505 World Championship
started with a bang in Aarhus, Denmark. Too much of a bang for many of
the 126 teams who struggled to complete two gruelling opening heats in
this toughest of regattas.

Among the many casualties were some of the favourites for the world
title. Gear failure forced the 2007 World Champions, Denmark’s Jan
Saugmann and Morten Ramsbæk, to retire after they had been leading race
one. Runner-up in last year’s Worlds, Mike Holt and Carl Smit of the
USA, profited from the Danes’ demise and moved into the lead, only to
suffer their own set of breakdowns. They too, failed to complete either
race.

Britain’s Ian Pinnell and Ian Mitchell, former world champions, took up
the reins at the front of the pack and sailed a steady race to cross the
line first, with USA’s Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn in second.

In heat two, Hamlin and Zinn took up the lead for a good part of the
race, with Germany’s three-time World Champion Wolfgang Hunger and
Julian Kleiner in hot pursuit. Hunger attacked up the final beat and
Hamlin failed to cover him as closely as he might have done, allowing
the German crew to slip past for the winner’s gun.

Hamlin may not have won a race, but he’s leading the regatta after
a tough day. He’s happy with that. Runner-up seven times and World
Champion in 1999, the legend from Long Beach is competing at his 30th
505 World Championship. Today his experience showed. “Perfect 505
conditions,” he smiled. While others were facing a long evening of boat
work, Hamlin’s nine-year-old hull emerged from a tough day unscathed.
Zinn looked ready for another two races. “It wasn’t even that windy out
there,” he said, an observation that few others would have agreed with.
Even by the standards of a world 505 fleet, today was a tough one, with
the 25-30 knot breeze combining with the waves to test the crews and
equipment to breaking point.

Like the Americans, German team Stefan Bohm and Gerald Roos sailed very
consistently to notch up two 3rd places, one point ahead of
Hunger/Kleiner. As for Saugmann, who has now used up both of the
discards available in this nine-race series, he was philosophical more
than upset. “So many things went so wrong today, we have to laugh about
it,” he said. “First one of the trapeze rings broke, and then later in
the race the spinnaker pulley at the top of the mast broke and the
halyard snapped.” With the spinnaker falling in the water they sailed
over the soggy sail and did well to avoid a capsize. They had hoped to
regroup and get fixed in time for the second race. But when they came
ashore they discovered the halyard had sawed its way about 30cm down the
front face of the mast. So they have to replace the mast with a new one
before tomorrow’s single scheduled race.

Mike Holt is paying the price for racing in a brand new, untested boat
that he has borrowed for the Worlds. “We had half an hour sailing in it
yesterday,” he shrugged. “The boat is fine, we were going fast today,
but the fittings let us down, just not strong enough.” After a broken
mainsheet ratchet made the boat much harder to sail, they finally had to
retire from race one when the highly-loaded rig adjustment fittings
pulled out of their anchor points in the boat. Holt and Smit will be
working hard tonight replacing equipment with bigger, heavier stuff that
they can be confident will get them through the rest of the regatta. But
Smit knew that today was the day that got away. “Those were our
conditions, just like sailing at home in San Francisco Bay,” he said.
“The breeze is meant to be dropping lighter in the next few days, so
it’s going to be hard winning after what happened today.”

The war of attrition has begun. For those who aren’t working on fixing
their boats this evening, they might get a chance to go back through all
the tracking data and video footage from the race course today. Not that
anyone needs to learn the lesson from such a brutal outing. If you keep
your boat upright, and if you can keep your boat in one piece, then
you’ll do well.

The SAP 505 World Championship takes place in Aarhus, Denmark, from 30
July to 5 August. This regatta is the latest in a series of major
sailing championships hosted by the City of Aarhus over the past 10
years, with the Volvo ISAF Youth Worlds having taken place here in 2008
and with a number of major championships scheduled in the near future,
including the A-Class Catamaran Worlds in 2011.

The 2010 SAP 505 World Championship is organised by Sailing Aarhus in
cooperation with Sport Event Denmark, Sport Aarhus Event and the Danish
Sailing Association. With a strong focus on innovation and new
technology to promote sailing to a wider audience, Denmark and the City
of Aarhus are bidding for the ISAF Worlds 2014, the most prestigious
regatta next to the Olympic Games.

