Gul Regattan Report
by Ebbe Rosen

I'm sorry it took so long to distribute the results. I've been too busy
and I have not had a chance to do make a proper report. So here is
a quick and late one.

We had 5 races as planned. Krister and Johan Barne were in a class for
themselves and Olle and I was lucky to be second, just one point before
Tom and Phillip on 3rd place. Two teams from Finland came all the way
from Helsinki and Tammerfors. There was one German team, 8619
(Ahrbom/Chris Nicholson's boat fromTownsville), 6 boats from Denmark and
5 from Sweden. We missed Jan Saugmann/Torben Ramsbaek but I guess they
were nice guys taking care of their families instead. One danish team
broke their mast in a capsize after the racing on Saturday and with no
spare mast around they had to go home with no sailing on Sunday. We have
a couple of new teams in Sweden and at least one of them will buy
a better 505 for next year. The weather and wind was perfect and the
event was succesful I think.


Report day 1

Wind 3-7 m/sec NW. Sunny +10o C and very good sailing conditions. 3 races.

Report day 2

Wind approx 5 m/sec NE. Sunny + 12o and excellent sailing conditions.
The wind has during the day increased to approx. 10 m/sec and it has
become more cloudy. 2 races (total 5).

We look forward to more races in Malmoe before the worlds in 2003 and we
will try to run them a bit later next year (in hope to see more
germans...). The GUL Regatta is held every year on tradition early in
May but we'd like to have a Nordic or Swedish/Danish Championship there
if possible.

On Friday a few teams were out practising together and Olle and I also
had a Fireball team trying out sailing our 505 (while we were sailing
their 100 year old fireball which was a terrible experiance). We also
had a chance to sail under the Oresund Bridge which was a nice
experiance.

Johan Arvedson had ordered danish beer which he kindly offered to
everyone after the racing.

The prizes were also quite Ok. The first 3 boats got rather expensive
GUL watches to both helm and crew!

Regards,
Ebbe Rosen (now with two watches...)
SWE 8232
