http://www.int505.org.au/res0166.html


Magic Conditions for 1st Heat in 505 Nationals

by Geoff Lange 30/12/2001


It doesn’t get much better than this. Conditions for the first heat were
made to order for some great racing off the heads of Sydney Harbour when
sailors were greeted with sunshine (albiet slightly hazy from recent
bushfires) and 28 degree temperatures. Winds were in the NE with the
promise of building as the day progressed.

The fleet was away cleanly at 2.00pm on the long 1.5 nautical mile work
with 12 knots of breeze on a fairly lumpy seaway. The fleet remained
tightly bunched up the first work with neither side apparently favoured
as the lead consistently changed hands with subtle changes in wind
pressure and direction.

At the top mark the first 3 boats rounded gunwale to gunwale with the
balance of the fleet rounding just seconds behind. It was Quirk/Lange
from Hewson/Karlovecz and Cuneo/Machin. All boats trapezed down the
square run with Quirk/Lange showing good speed to round the bottom mark
with what turned out to be a race winning lead.

A pack of 6 boats fought for the minor placings over the next few legs
with positions constantly changing.The balance of the fleet remained
very close considering the length of the legs. While not a large fleet
the quality is certainly apparent.

The wind picked up to 15 – 17 knots for the final windward return and
beat to the finish. The big movers were Justin and Ken Mitchell, showing
excellent speed to windward in the fresher conditions to establish
a strong second position.

After 2 hours of very physical sailing the fleet finally arrived at the
finish. Sailing in a seaway certainly adds another dimension to the
racing with skippers having to thread the waves and play mainsheet for
long periods. Crews have to be ever alert not to get washed from the
gunwale.


Top five placings were:

1. Quirk/Lange
2. Mitchell/Mitchell
3. Hewson/Karlovecz
4. Higgins/Marsh
5. Cuneo/Machin



Some observations on the course.

This is the first time we have sailed the new worlds course - windward
return, triangle, windward return, beat to finish. From my perspective
up front everything went very well. The 1.5 nautical mile works
certainly made for a long race considering the conditions, but we are
sailing a national titles. Wouldn’t like to see the races stretch beyond
2 hours for the leading boats.

The 45 degree course was also just about right. The first reach was
fairly open, but still a wire the whole way. The second reach was
dynamite, a flat chat reach with crews at times feeling they were
getting blown low but eventually making the bottom mark without too much
trouble. It would be very interesting indeed in another 5 knots of
breeze. I think the seaway makes things a bit more difficult with boats
getting hung up on waves and skippers not knowing exactly when the
rudder might say too much.

In 15 knots it appears 45 degrees is just about right. I think the race
committee should be given some flexibility. In less than 10 knots we
will need to tighten up by 5 – 10 degrees. In more than 20 knots maybe
opening up by another 5 degrees should be considered otherwise we might
not see too many chutes, especially on the leg that will inevitably be
tighter due to wind shifts.


http://www.int505.org.au/res0167.html

Strong Southerly Tests 505’s in 2nd Heat

by Geoff Lange 31/12/2001


Sunday dawned with an eerie calm and a smoke haze never seen before in
the Sydney area. Forecast was for a strong southerly front to arrive at
around start time so the Race Committee was quick to determine offshore
was not an option and posted flags for course area "zulu", being the
main Sound area. Shortly afterwards the postponement flag was also
raised as the fleet waited ashore for the pending front to arrive.

Huey did not take long to show us we were in for an interesting day. The
southerly settled in at 15 – 20 knots with some bullets of up to 25
knots. The fleet was sent out for the scheduled start at 2.00pm and the
fun and games commenced.

Sandy Higgins was gate boat and set off towards Middle Head and the
fleet was away. Late starters benefited most from a right hand shift off
Middle Head and the leading boats all came from this side.

Those in the leading bunch at the top mark included Sandy Higgins/Paul
Marsh, Ben Austin/Shane Guanaria and Brett Van Munster/Adam Linton.

Our position back in the pack enabled us to witness plenty of fun and
games down the first square. One of the 25 knot bullets arrived as most
boats attempted the first gybe. About half the fleet in front of us
wiped out and we were left well inside the top ten by the bottom mark.
Sandy managed to do it perfectly and with his nearest rivals "in the
pond" was handed a comfortable lead which he never looked like
squandering.

Racing for the minor placings was intense around the next few laps, with
positions changing hands constantly as pressure lines appeared and
disappeared across the course. The reaches were a tricky exercise, with
most crews not knowing how hard to push for fear of getting hung up on
a wave as a bullet hit.

The wind backed off a little towards the end and things settled down,
not before all boats outside the top five had inspected their bottoms at
least once.


The judges put everybody out of their suffering by awarding the
following placings:-

1. Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh
2. Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz
3. Justin Mitchell / Ken Mitchell
4. Hugh Stoddart / Jordan Spence
5. Michael Quirk / Geoff Lange


Some thoughts on the Big Spinnakers

Most sailors are ecstatic with the increased power and speed the big
kites generate when the wind is up. Boat handling is not a problem, but
you are punished more severely when you get it wrong. There is more sail
area up high to make sure any indiscretion is punished to the full
extent. So far I have not heard of any mast failures during this regatta
or anywhere for that matter. What has become apparent is the number of
rudder failures experienced in a relatively short time. Looks like
rudders, gudgeons and pintles will all need to be beefed up to take the
higher loads.


http://www.int505.org.au/res0168.html


Difficult Day for 3rd Heat

by Geoff Lange 1/1/2002


Conditions for the 3rd Heat of the 505 Nationals tested the Race
Committee and competitors alike. While a NE breeze established itself
early, the forecast suggested caution with the possibility of strong
westerlies and afternoon storms. As a result the fleet remained in the
Sound area for racing.

After a short delay the fleet was away to a premature start, with the
patherfinder Hugh Stoddart, knocking from the pin causing a lot of
difficulty for the fleet starting late. Jim Sanderson didn’t quite get
back and ended up assuming he had right of way on Hugh.

The second attempt was more successful with everybody wanting to start
late with a runout tide and 10 knots of pressure bending around South
Head. After 1 minute up the line only a couple of boats had started but
as it turned out these boats filled the top placings at the windward
mark.

The pressure was in and out all day and fluky as all hell with shifts of
40 degrees as you approached the windward mark. At times crews were
required to sit on the case while only metres away other boats were
throwing sheet and points in the same direction on the other tack.

Sandy Higgins/Paul Marsh, sailing with confidence and composure,
established a good lead early in the race which they managed to hold
until the finish. It was the type of day where leading is a nightmare,
impossible to cover boats with all the different pressure lines
appearing and disappearing across the course. Losing places was very
easy, just ask Andrew Hewson/ Frank Karlovecz, who were right up early
and faded as the race progressed. It was a case of hoping you had been
good boys all year and Santa would deliver some belated Christmas
presents with the lines of pressure as they came through.

The chasing pack included Brett Van Munster/Adam Linton and Ben
Austin/Shane Guanaria, both sailing exceptionally well. As the race
progressed the breeze slowly died and went left. At one stage up the
last work kites were seen.

When the torture was finally over top 5 placings were:-

1. Sandy Higgins/ Paul Marsh
2. Brett Van Munster/ Adam Linton
3. Peter Hewson/ Morgan Bax
4. Scott Olsen/ Sean Gregory
5. Hugh Stoddart/ Jordan Spence

PS. You came probably tell the author had a frustrating day.


http://www.int505.org.au/res0169.html



Heat 4 Sets up Sandy Higgins/Paul Marsh for Title

by Geoff Lange 2/1/2002


It was another difficult day on the Sydney Harbour for Heat 4 of the 505
Nationals. The fleet headed out for the 2.00pm start with a forecast for
strong Westerly winds. At 2.00pm the fleet was away in 10 knots of
Westerly and we managed to do the work and square before the breeze went
180 degrees and the Race Committee made a great decision to blow the
race.

The fleet drifted around for an hour before a NE breeze of 10 knots with
some occasional stronger gusts established itself on the main harbour.
Further inland Westerlies were still blowing strongly.

The fleet was away again shortly after 3.00pm and up the first work it
was the early starters who came out in front. Local knowledge proved
dangerous, those of us who tried to pick up the strong outgoing tide
under South Head did not fair well.

At the top mark the leaders were bunched, boats that stayed on starboard
gybe faired considerably better and by the bottom mark in was Sandy
Higgins/Paul Marsh who had moved to the lead. The chasing boats included
Neil Long/Graham Prosser and Justin & Ken Mitchell. Up the second work
it was left hand side which again paid. The breeze freshened slightly
allowing the leaders to have first use and stretch their advantage.

The gybe mark position meant the fleet had to negotiate the hole under
North Head. Boats needed a little luck to pick up a gust to push them
back into the main pressure coming down from Manly. The leaders where
blown low on the second reach allowing Wally Hewson/Morgan Bax and Mike
Quirk/Geoff Lange who had managed to stay high to make up a lot of
ground and round the bottom mark only a few boatlengths from the
leaders.

Positions did not change up the work, except for Long/Prosser who showed
good speed to sneak through to 2nd. At the top mark the fleet was left
astonished when the Race Committee decided to end proceeding prematurely
by shortening course. I talked with the Race Officers afterwards and
they said their fear was not safety, but the risk of the breeze dying
out or shifting around and becoming unfair for competitors.

Hindsight is such a great thing. The NE breeze remained consistent for
a full length race. The leaders finished in 54 minutes which the
majority of competitors viewed as not sufficient for a National Title
race.

When the racing was abruptly ended the top 5 positions were:-
1. Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh
2. Neil Long / Graham Prosser
3. Justin Mitchell / Ken Mitchell
4. Wally Hewson / Morgan Bax
5. Michael Quirk / Geoff Lange

Sandy and Paul have been sailing exceptionally well and deserve to be
well out in front in the regatta. They have good speed on the works, but
more importantly they keep putting the boat in the right places. They
will be hard to pull back and only need a couple of top 5 placings in
the final 3 heats to take the title.

The racing for the minor placings is intense with nothing separating
a further 3 boats. Unfortunately the forecast is for further unsettled
weather and the chance of strong westerly winds. One can only dream of
steady NE breezes and long offshore courses.

http://www.int505.org.au/res0170.html



Sea Breezes Return for 5th Heat of Nationals

by Geoff Lange 3/1/2002


Sydney’s crazy weather returned to some form of normality for the 5th
heat, with a moderate SE breeze enabling the fleet to sail offshore for
the first time in a number of days. This was very much to the liking of
Sandy Higgins/Paul Marsh who gave another superlative display for
a convincing win and a stranglehold on the series.

Conditions were extremely lumpy for the windstrength of 10-12 knots at
the start. Neither side of the course seemed particularly favoured, it
was the crews who managed to pick the shifts that were regular and all
over the course that faired best. The compass seemed to be regularly
moving 10 degrees each side of average. Quick out of the gate were Ben
Austin/Shane Guanaria sailing in good pressure with bow down and rolling
over the waves. These guys are talented Laser sailors and are really
putting a good series together for the first time in a five-oh.

By the weather mark it was Ben and Shane with the regular suspects Sandy
Higgins/Paul Marsh and Andrew Hewson/Frank Karlovecz chasing close
behind. The breeze had died a little and most crews took the
conservative option and square ran to the leeward mark rather than hot
it up on the wire and chance being left out on a side with no pressure.

Ben and Shane struggled a little downwind allowing Sandy and Andrew to
sneak in front by the leeward mark. The breeze back off further and
started to clock East. Taking best advantage of this were Mike
Quirk/Geoff Lange who slipped through a number of boats and started to
apply pressure on the leaders.

It became a race in 3 by the time the boats arrived at the windward mark
for a second time. The backing breeze meant the first reach was
 a perfect wire all the way to the gybe mark. The second reach was
 much broader and most boats square ran the last part and struggled
 to make the leeward mark without gybing. Positions did not seem to
 change too much with Andrew and Frank holding a slender lead from
 Sandy and Paul with Mike and Geoff slowly closing.

The windward mark was moved 20 degrees left for the next work. Sandy and
Paul found the overdrive gear to get through Andrew and Frank. Once in
the lead they never looked back and went on for a convincing win.

Up the final work Mike and Geoff slipped through Andrew and Frank. As
the finish approached a tacking duel ensued that would have put John
Bertrand and Dennis Conner to shame. In the space of 200 metres there
must have been 20 tacks with Mike and Geoff hanging on for 2nd place.

Just behind Hugh Stoddart/Jordan Spence were engaged in a close battle
with Ben and Shane. Hugh and Jordan showed their experience and
prevailed for 4th. Hugh is sailing well but will admit he is lacking
that elusive magical spark since putting a new Cumulus rig in his boat
since returning from Portugal.

The top 5 places for the day were awarded as such:-

1. Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh
2. Michael Quirk / Geoff Lange
3. Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz
4. Hugh Stoddart / Jordan Spence
5. Ben Austin / Shane Guanaria

After 5 heats with a drop the top 10 places are:-

1. Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh 4 pts
2. Michael Quirk / Geoff Lange 13 pts
3. Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz 14 pts
4. Justin Mitchell / Ken Mitchell 18 pts
5. Hugh Stoddart / Jordan Spence 22 pts
6. Ben Austin / Shane Guanaria 25 pts
7. Wally Hewson / Morgan Bax 30 pts
8. Scott Olsen / Sean Gregory 30 pts
9. David Porter / Peter Holden 35 pts
10. Brett Van Munster / Adam Linton 37 pts


http://www.int505.org.au/res0171.html



Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh Claim Title

by Geoff Lange 4/1/2002


Another consistent performance in the 6th heat and a 3rd place were
enough for Sandy and Paul to claim the Australian National Title with
a race to spare.

The wind was NE and 12 –15 knots making for a enjoyable day off Sydney
Heads. For a change Sandy and Paul did not have it all their own way and
admitted to having "wobbly knees" around the first lap to find
themselves back in the pack at the leeward mark.

Up front it was Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz and Hugh Stoddart
/ Jordan Spence leading the way with Michael Quirk / Geoff Lange waiting
for their opportunity to pounce on the downwind legs. Sandy and Paul
 used their upwind speed to join this group and by the windward mark
 only seconds separated the first 4 boats.

The angles for the next 2 reaches were absolutely perfect, flat chat
reaching all the way. Mike and Geoff were quick to step out and
established a 50 metre lead by the leeward mark. Over the long windward
work the chasing boats gobbled up this distance and at the weather mark
Mike, Andrew and Sandy went round gunwale to gunwale with Hugh just
behind.

Again Mike and Geoff were able to slip into the lead downhill to set up
a fantastic struggle on the work to the finish. When the gun declared
the winner in was Mike and Geoff who prevailed by 6 seconds from Andrew
and Frank with Sandy and Paul happy to coast home into 3rd.

The top 5 places today were:-

1. Michael Quirk / Geoff Lange
2. Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz
3. Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh
4. Hugh Stoddart / Jordan Spence
5. Ben Austin / Shane Guanaria

Everything is set up for a monumental struggle for the minor places
tomorrow.

The handicap event is being keenly contested with some fantastic prizes
on offer. Out in front is Ben Hunter / Ben Amos closely followed by Ian
Burford / Ben Greenhough with a bunch of eager chasers ready to pounce.

The dubious honour of winning the Peter Pisters Perpetual Prize for
Persistent Piss Poor Performance occasioning Prolific Pointscoring is to
be avoided by crews at all costs. To qualify you must come last in the
regatta having finished all races. Graham and Michelle Payn are
threatening to throw the regatta wide open by slipping in a DNF if there
cannot have a good final heat and climb over a few of the bottom markers


http://www.int505.org.au/res0172.html

Heat 7 Concludes a Great Regatta

by Geoff Lange 5/1/2002


Heat 7 was sailed offshore in a 15 knot SE breeze allowing for another
day of great racing. With Sandy Higgins and Paul Marsh already with the
title safely in their keeping, attention turned to the minor placings
and handicap results.

The combinations of Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz and Michael Quirk
/ Geoff Lange had another titanic struggle. As is typical of the
regatta, Andrew and Frank would establish a lead on the works only to be
mown down by the flying Mike and Geoff downhill. Unfortunately the
battle was ended prematurely when Mike and Geoff broke a forestay
fitting rounding the bottom mark the last time. At the time the two
boats were contesting the lead and so close Mike had to be careful not
to take Andrew’s rudder off in the rounding manoeuvre.

Andrew and Frank went on to take the gun. Final places were:-

1. Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz
2. Ben Austin / Shane Guanaria
3. Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh
4. Scott Olsen / Sean Gregory
5. David Porter / Peter Holden


Final top 10 results in the regatta were:-

1. Sandy Higgins / Paul Marsh 10 pts
2. Andrew Hewson / Frank Karlovecz 17 pts
3. Michael Quirk / Geoff Lange 22 pts
4. Ben Austin / Shane Guanaria 32 pts
5. Hugh Stoddart / Jordan Spencer 36 pts
6. Scott Olsen / Sean Gregory 43 pts
7. Bill Cuneo / Richard Machin 43.2 pts
8. Peter Hewson / Morgan Bax 46 pts
9. David Porter / Peter Holden 46 pts
10. Justin Mitchell / Ken Mitchell 47 pts


In the struggle for handicap honours, the young combination of Ben
Hunter and Ben Amos put together their best race of the series, a very
creditable 15th, to convincing clinch the trophy.


Some highlights of the regatta

• The consistency of Sandy and Paul to show the rest the standard to
which we must all aspire.

• The success of Ben Austin and Shane Guanaria in their first 505
regatta. These young guys had never sailed a trapeze spinnaker boat
until a few weeks ago. Hopefully they will keep at it and attract other
young crews capable of showing up us "old farts".

• The quality of the race management. Everything happened like clockwork
and courses were spot on. The 45 degree triangle appears to be perfect
in 15 knots of breeze. Pity about the shortened course in race 4 – who
would want to be a race officer, you are dammed if you do and dammed if
you don’t.

• The quality of the seamanship of everybody in what turned out to be
a fairly windy regatta sailed in very difficult sea conditions. There
were very few DNF’s.

• The good camaraderie and sportsmanship between competitors. There was
only one protest and this was against the Race Committee.

• The success of the big kite in the first regatta. There were fears of
crews not being able to handle the big kite in fresher conditions. Sure
there were some spills, especially in 25 knots in race 2, but I did not
hear any complaints around the boatpark. Not one mast failure however
rudders will need close attention.

• The amazing downwind speed of Mike and Geoff (just bragging). We
appear to have stolen a march on the rest of the fleet with spinnaker
development.

• And finally the ability of our mate Dunny (alias Ian Dunn) to stay out
of the limelight. When asked by Dunny to write the race reports
I accepted provided he would not escape the wrath of my pen. He must
have been too busy with the regatta organisation – well done Dunny.

Your intrepid reporter signing off for the final time – see you all at
the next regatta.

