TJ O'Brien
10 Jul 2023, 23:12

The 505 fleet returned to Hampton Yacht Club for the first time since
2020 last weekend. A small, 5 boat fleet included sailors returning to
the 505 after some time away and several sailors brand new to the class.
Four of the ten sailors were under 30.

Saturday's racing started in a light and building breeze. I'd never
actually done a line start in a 505, we went for the pin and - when
Henry tacked onto port after the start - led the fleet out to the right
before Henry/Chris and Barney/Clayton sailed right past us.
Dave/Lawrence passed us a bit later on the leg, and we spend the
remainder of the race chasing them down.After he had a bad hoist on the
final leg were able to sneak past for a third place finish.

The second race saw a solid 12 knots or so and the fleet decided to stay
a bit more to the left for current relief. Again, Henry and Barney had
their matchup well ahead of the rest of us, but this time class
newcomers Tucker/Kate closed on Dave and I - which started to make me
nervous! Due to my rigging shenanigans I was unable to hoist the kite on
the first downwind, so Dave extended on us as we figured out how to undo
the mess. We couldn't catch Dave this time, but due to a wipe out for
Tucker we kept fourth, putting us tied on points with Dave. Henry and
Barney had also traded places in the two races, leaving them tied as
well.

In typical southeastern summer fashion an approaching thunderstorm ended
racing early and no wind on Sunday meant places would be decided by
tiebreak for both first and third. Summer weather can be iffy, but it
turned out to be a great regatta, and we have some new sailors to
welcome to the fleet.

Up next for region 2 is the SAYRA Open at CYC in Wrightsville Beach. The
OA has expressed some concern at the lack of registrations. Several of
you told me you would be coming, so register now!
https://theclubspot.com/regatta/H0PiBDDvnA If you need crew/driver/boat
let me know and we'll match you up. This is a great place to sail and
a potential venue for some big events later on. Don't miss it!

TJ O'Brien --
