13 Jun 2023, 15:27

A little tardy with this one. Craig is having a week of it so I'll step in for
him.

In one of the more prescient acts of this young decade, Duane engineered
Wickford as a 3 day New England Championships event. As promised many times,
June on Narragansett Bay is straight money for breeze. As it happened, it was a
bit too money on Saturday. Friday, however, was an absolutely perfect day for
sailing and we had the whole show to ourselves. We had a big and competitive
fleet, this was a great event.

Craig T and Adam W got their 2023 Worlds campaign off to a hot start with
fantastic speed and good and rapidly improving boat handling to open with 3
straight bullets in a steadily building southerly. Ethan and Ted, Tom and
Gordon, Luke and John, and Keith and I all managed to get in front of them but
we all succumbed to the meat grinder that was their upwind boat speed. Tom and
Gordon had their typical Wickford juju going and managed to go the right way
often enough, quickly enough to keep it tight. You'd think after a combined 213
years of 505 sailing on that boat they'd be able to get a layline right, but
you'd be very wrong. Maybe next year. Unfortunately Gordon got sick and they
had to go in.Race 4 saw a slight dip in wind speed which gave us and Paul/Sol a
reprieve from Craig/Adam's flogging, but race 5 reverted back to east coast
windy and 8854 made it 4 from 5 on the day.

A very special thing about Friday was having Pete Alarie out coaching and
shooting video, then hosting a debrief after sailing at WYC. Thanks to Will
Platt for use of his boat which made this possible. Pete's videos are here:
https://www.youtube.com/@PeterAlarie

Saturday was a mess, 25+ with huge gusts from the Northeast and low 50s air
temps. No racing.

Sunday was a toned-down version of Saturday, atypical in extremis for the
season but hey - there was wind. It felt more like Mystic Lake in early April
than Narragansett Bay in June, huge puffs and shifts meant you could gain and
lose half the fleet on one shift. The overwhelming theme was when you thought
you were far enough left, go farther. Ted/Matt and Art/Johnny got the memo and
had some great moments, but Craig and Adam still went 1-4-1 to futher extend
their lead over Keith and me, with John and Luke beating out Ethan and Ted for
3rd.

Thanks to Skip. Barbara and WYC for putting on yet another great Wickford
Regatta.

Next up is Newport Regatta which you can register for here:
https://yachtscoring.com/emenu.cfm

And you should also register for ECCs while you're at it:
https://theclubspot.com/regatta/LTLvdS0LKV

David Kirkpatrick
