[505-usa-region-1] 2023 Newport Regatta Report / Results


Craig Thompson
10 Jul 2023, 17:58

The 2023 Newport Regatta was hosted by Sail Newport over the weekend of
July 8-9. The racing area was Narragansett Bay’s Potter Cove, just North
of the Newport bridge. The forecast for the weekend was very sketchy,
with both days looking marginal and at risk for little or no racing. But
in typical Newport fashion, the conditions exceeded the forecast and
great racing was held on both days. 11 teams from the USA and Canada
came to compete in what was a very challenging and competitive regatta
which saw 5 different race winners in 7 races.

After a brief postponement on shore on Saturday, all fleets launched in
a light southwesterly breeze and headed for the racing area for a 1PM
start. The circle was shared with three other one-design classes:
Formula 18 Catamarans, VX Ones, and Thistles; all of which have very
different sailing angles both upwind and down. For a 11-boat fleet,
finding a clear lane and managing traffic was more similar to a North
Americans or a Worlds.

The RC team, including PROs Mike Levesque (Uxbridge, MA) and Kevin Reeds
(Annapolis, MD), did an incredible job of getting the course set and the
races started with urgency and communicating well to competitors over
the VHF. To get 7 races off across all classes on these two days with
minimal waiting around is a big testament to the professionalism of this
Race Committee. On behalf of the 505 class, we are thankful for all of
the volunteers who made this event possible.

The first race was started in a six to seven knot southerly. Current was
a major factor in the racing, with the tide change from flood to ebb
occurring during the racing on both days. Adding in an abnormal amount
of weeds in the water, a busy day of powerboats, and 4 classes on the
same racetrack there were plenty of passing lanes and tight mark
roundings.

Race 1 still had some residual flood tide and current relief on the
right side was a factor allowing teams to make both sides work at times.
Peter Scannell and John Dunlea opened the event with a hard-fought win
ahead of Duane Delfosse and Mike Hull. Dave Kirkpatrick and Keith
Longson dominated the rest of the day managing the many challenges
better than the rest and putting up a score line of 3,1,1,1. Their
starts, speed, and smart sailing were unmatched by the rest of the fleet
who all battled it out for the remaining places.

Excerpt from the Sail Newport Day 1 Report
(https://sailnewport.org/newport-regatta-finally-delivers-breeze/):


PRO Mike Levesque noted, “The light breeze and strong tidal current
combined to challenge the sailors and the race committee. Despite
a number of individual recalls, the fleets were exciting to watch. There
were many crowded mark roundings and photo-finishes across all fleets in
every race.”

Day 2 started in a similar fashion to Saturday with a brief postponement
ashore and a start time of noon on the racecourse. The breeze was
lighter on Sunday, but with less powerboat traffic to content with.
Sunday’s 3 races were particularly close and contested. Race 5 of the
series was won by Luke/John in convincing fashion. The rest of the pack
was decided on the end of the last run with Craig Thompson and Adam
Wolnikowski sneaking into second and Dave/Keith in third. Race 6 was won
by Paul Taylor and Russell Miller who went wire-to-wire in a very hard
race to maintain the lead. Craig/Adam capitalized on the battle between
Dave/Keith and Luke/John to slide into second again on the final run.

Going into the final race of the series, Luke/John had a chance at the
win but could not get in front of Dave/Keith who finished third in the
race to take the series. Craig/Adam won the final race to lock up third
in the series.


Congratulations to Dave and Keith on a deserving victory.


Sail Newport Final Report: https://sailnewport.org/70743-2/

Overall Results:
https://yachtscoring.com/event_results_cumulative.cfm?eID=16034 ___

Craig Thompson

