Mike Martin
28 May 2023, 22:31

Last weekend (May 20-21) the West Coast fleet gathered at the site of the 2023
World Championships to get a good look at the venue. We had conditions similar
to what is expected in late September: morning clouds and light air clearing to
afternoon breezes of 15-18 knots.  Attendance was a litter lighter than normal
due to several West Coast regulars being still in Italy after the Garda
Regatta.  Kudos to Carl and Holty for flying all night from Italy to make it
onto the water in San Francisco on Saturday. 

We had 3 races each day, Saturday started with 12- 14 knots and flood tide
giving smooth water and some good tactical sailing up the Cityfront.  Eric
Anderson & Nick Baird showed that their time training out of St Francis was
paying off by leading from start to finish. Second place was contested by
almost every boat in the fleet at some point in the race. Race 2 had similar
conditions, but this time Carl & Holty and Adam & Mike were duking it out for
the lead. At the finish line, Adam & Mike took the win, but Eric & Nic sailed
super smart to take second in the end. Race 3 featured a showdown between Eric
& Nic and Adam & Mike right up to the point on the third beat where Nic
dislocated his shoulder. This left Adam & Mike with the win, and Eric without a
driver for Sunday and the next 8 weeks :-(  Rob & AJ put together a great race
to finish 2nd.

After racing, the sailors enjoyed the typical Debrief / BS / St Francis feed
session. Later that evening, Carl worried about keeping his spot with Holty,
decided to take Rob Woelfel out for “dinner."  His tactic worked better than he
had planned as Sunday morning had Rob praying to the porcelain god.
Unfortunately this left AJ without a crew.  Trying to make lemonade  after
being served lemons, Eric and AJ combined forces to sail together on Sunday.

Race 1 on Sunday had light air and LOTS of current.  Early on Stu and Ryan
found the best current relief and took an early lead. Carl & Holty figured out
what Stu & Ryan had done and doubled down on the current relief.  It paid off
with the lead at the weather mark. Jon Bell & JB were fighting for the lead,
but at the finish, it was Carl and Holty.  The next race had mid teen wind and
Adam & Mike sailed the shifts and current well to take the win, with Carl &
Mike and Jon & JB filing out the top 3. The wind picked up to 15-18 for the
final race with similar results, except for the brand new  team Eric & AJ
finding their groove to take the 3 spot. 

Overall the Podium was  Adam & Mike taking the top spot, Super tight racing had
a tie for second and third with Jon & JB winning the tie breaker for Silver and
Reeve and Teddy rounding out the top 3. 

Big shout out to a few new teams like Caleb and James showing some great
potential and the reemergence of some old faces like Stu and Ryan showing that
they still have what it takes.

Key take always to remember for the worlds
1. Don’t fly in from Europe 12 hours before the first race.
2. Don’t injure yourself or your teammate.
3. Don’t go to “Dinner” with Carl.

