Alberta Provincial Championships and Report from Alberta 505 Fleet

We have, as a fleet, have had a great deal of success this season. We have
officially gained status as an active fleet in Canada, and at present have
eight 505s at our club. We planned two major events for our fleet this year.
The first one in June where we awarded the Alberta/Sask. Challenge trophy to
the top boat from either province, Shona and Steve won this for the second year
running. Only four boats showed up for this event, Carl and Val were having a
baby. Our last event was fantastic and included eight 505s. I think that was
the number at Western Canadians in Kamloops '94. The eight included seven from
our club and one from Sask. (Dale Phillips). We started on Saturday Sept. 2nd
at 9:00 am with a brief talk and then off to the water for a clinic lead by
Shona Moss. This proved to be very beneficial to our fleet making for very
close racing. We had a large variety of wind throughout the ten races over
three days. Saturday 3 races (10-15 knots), Sunday 3 races (3-10 knots), Monday
4 races(18-23 Knots).

Along with the 505s we allowed an Osprey to take part, this is a boat of
similar size and we are at present trying to get the owner to buy a 505.

This was, as I have said, a great event. As the weekend progressed we all
became faster which made for competitive starts and mark rounding. On the last
day in the 7th race the boats finishing 3rd-6th all finished within about 15
seconds of each other. I was glad to be on the other side of the line at that
point. It was one of the best regattas I have ever been a part of. We had
fantastic race officials who went to great lengths to keep the courses always
square and true to the wind. Over all the event was an outstanding success for
our fleet and 505s in western Canada.

I hope you can read the results, we had some boats that just didn't make it
much further than the start line but they did take part in the clinic. It was a
very exciting year with great winds and great weather. I would like to thank
Dale Philips and crew for coming to two of our events this summer. We hope to
host the western Canadians next year and are counting on a large turn out from
the BC fleets.

Thanks and good sailing,

Dean Rootsaert Alberta Fleet Captain dar@gpu.srv.ualberta.ca
