Easter Europacup Regatta, Cavalaire, France, 9-11 April 2004

Five UK teams made the trip to the traditional season's opener of the
European Circuit. Attendees were from France, Germany, Denmark, Sweden,
Belgium and the UK, and there were 54 competitors. With the GBR boats on
the highly calibrated "maxi-trailer" (courtesy of David 'Barney' Barnes
who has done a magnificent job), most crews elected to fly down. Charlie
and Dougal drove, although in retrospect it was actually no cheaper than
flying (tolls; ferry; petrol etc.). Oh yes, and don't bother with the
small Michelin maps sold on the ferry - utterly useless..!!

Aprčs sail was superb as usual, with profits at L'Ancre Bleu (that's
"Blue Anchor" for those with limited imagination) no doubt bolstered by
the GBR contingent. On the business end of things, Ian and Steve
maintained their undefeated record in Europe (like Chelsea, but without
the substitutions) - although the result went down to the very last
race, in this most open of regattas.

Day 1

One race sailed. A comedy of errors for team GBR. After most of the day
spent on the beach, and then flopping around in the race area, all of
the Brit boats missed the start by about two minutes having strayed too
far towards home when the racing looked like being abandoned. All the
GBR crews made distance back through the fleet, although Christian and
Terry sailed quite magnificently to a barely believable 4th place after
just one triangle, one sausage and a final beat.

Day 2

Three races sailed - Ian and Steve's 4, 8, 2 was the best in a topsy
turvy day which ended in a three-way tie for the lead. Special mention
here should go to German helmswoman Sophie Sollner, who's 2,10,2 score
put her right in contention at the top - she and Wolfgang were the
quickest crew in sub-trapezing winds. The day finished with
a mouth-watering end in prospect with 5 or 6 crews capable of winning on
the final day. [Actually, Ian was lying 4th after discard after Day 2.
The leading five boats were within 3 points of each other, and Terry was
only 2 points further behind, with others also close. - Rob.]

Day 3

Two races sailed - light winds that Ian and Steve managed to work better
than the rest....just. In the penultimate race (marginal trapezing
upwind) Philippe Boite and Fabrice Toupet battled back from a middling
start to challenge Ian and Steve for about 3rd/4th slot. Ian and Steve
held on, so cutting back the French duo's lead to just 1 point for the
final race - with discard deciding, they would need one clear place
between the crews in the final race to take the win.

With the wind really dying off, the final race was one lap plus one
beat. Not surprisingly, Philippe and Fabrice sought out Ian and Steve,
leading them around the first windward mark, and covering their faster
but higher reaching angles down the run in the light, light zephyrs. On
the final beat, a lottery ensued as the front 6 or 7 boats fanned across
the race track each hunting the breeze. With Ian/Steve and
Philippe/Fabrice out to port, for a brief moment it looked as if both
crews might end up in the mid teens as the wind started to fill in from
the other side of the race track. However in the second half of this
tantalisingly important leg, the balance swung the other way. The two
top crews now near the (favoured) port layline inched their way back to
the finish line, as the wind filled in across the course. Ian and Steve
led by no more than 6/7 boatlengths at any stage during the latter
stages of the leg, and arrived at the line with that small lead covering
3rd to 6th place. Victory to the Brits - but only just.

Christian and Terry will be pleased with their performance. Albeit
slightly unlucky on the final day, they battled back from some pretty
grisly first mark positions on the final day, showing excellent boat
speed when they had the chance. Charlie and Dougal were more of a mixed
bag. 26th &19th in the first two races wasn't too famous - but steady
improvements in the light/mid wind range gave them a final day of 7 and
4 to feel good about. Three GBR crews in the top ten can't be all bad.

The competition next goes domestic at Stone this weekend, as the
travellers' series kicks off. The UK class expects a solid turnout as
crews from across the country to compete for this new award.


-------------

EUROPA CUP 505 CAVALAIRE 2004
09/04/2004 au 11/04/2004
French European Cup at Cavalaire

Ian Pinnell and Steve Hunt sailed a convincing Sunday to take on the
Europa Cup tour in Cavalaire. The regatta was sailed in unusually light
winds - Cavalaire is famous for the easter mistral regatta making for
fun races in choppy waters... none of this this easter - light winds
instead in sea breeze and beautiful sunshine.

In these very flucky conditions things were not going to be easy for Ian
and Steve since so many french teams were proving very fast (and lucky
enough ?) in the light stuff to the extent that Ian and Steve were only
4th overall starting the last day of racing. But Ravet/Loyal from La
Rochelle had to stay ashore due to a bad pain in the neck (no kidding !)
- Philippe Boite and Fabrice Toupet lost their tactical battle to Ian so
did Christian Sylvestre... Ian sailing two convincing races took the
lead and won the regatta in front of 54 fiveohs from all over europe.
Along with Ian, two german teams including the former winner Kellner
squeezed in to finish in the top five. Bravo to the champions and many
thanks to all participants and to the club organizer.

