CYC Sport Boat Regatta report
2011-10-01


Eight teams signed up for the Coronado Yacht Club regatta this past
weekend ... and got to enjoy typical south bay conditions with flat
water and moderate breezes.  We also got to enjoy a fantastic debrief
with Howard Hamlin and Andy Zinn sharing some of their rigging tips and
go fast secrets and to take a look at their brand new Rondar.



This was by far the most competitive 505 fleet we've had in San Diego in
regattas I have sailed.  A single mistake such as a bad tack or poor
rounding would mean several lost places (and unfortunately I know this
from experience).  We were in second place several times and either had
a bad tack, went the wrong way or had a poor rounding and lost 2-3 boats
quickly.



For both days we had lighter breeze which built over the course of the
day to where we were consistently having crew out on the wire upwind and
big gains/losses were made in the decision to wire run or sit on the
tanks.  Slightly more breeze on day 2 with some nice wire running
conditions.



Couple highlights:



Race 1:  At the start, the wind had shifted to favor starboard tack ...
Howard/Andy and Amie/Ted both went left and the rest of the fleet went
right following normal south bay protocol.  When the fleet converged at
the top mark Howard and Amie were in 1,2 and statyed there the rest of
the race.  At the debrief after, they both pointed out that the wind had
shifted to the right and stbd tack was highly favored ... when they got
a header near the port tack layline they tacked and it worked like
a charm.



Race 2:  Not much to remember in this one.  We seem to be slightly
slower upwind and had good speed downwind.  Team Billings joined the
fleet for this race then mysteriously dis-appeared for the rest of the
regatta.  They seemed to be sailing well until things started falling
apart ... hope to see them out soon.



Race 3:  Not sure what happened at the front of the fleet, but thats the
one where Sean and I had a bad tack about ten yards from the finish and
wound up fouling Mark Folkman while on port tack.  We did our circles
and managed to let Mark and Amie/ted sail past to finish fourth.
Apologies to Mark ... I did not realize how long it would take to
accelerate after we filled the boat with water.  



We rounded the final weather mark in 5th place and decided to wire run
(following Howard/Andy while the rest of the fleet sat on the tanks.  We
managed to round the leeward mark in second pace as a result of the wire
running.  In the debrief, we discussed lighter breeze wiring technique
and realized it can be fast if the crew hikes high and the skipper sits
pretty far inboard to allow the boat to keep moving but sail somewhat
deep.  another thing I learned was that in marginal wiring conditions it
can pay to switch between the modes in the puffs and lulls ... but it is
a bad idea to sail to far from the middle of the course.  If you get
caught out on the side and the wind drops, sailing on the tanks back to
the middle can be painfully slow.)



Race 4: Maybe someone else can fill in the details from this one.  We
did try the tip of pulling the board all the way up on the runs (on my
boat you have to hold the board up) and it seemed pretty fast ...
although somewhat tough to control the boat.



Race 5: Started with relatively light breeze and it was close through
the entire race with lots of place changes.  We lost Amie/Ted this day
and picked up Jeff/Peter sailing Howard/Andy's old boat.



Race 6:  Maybe someone else can fill in the details.



CYC did a new thing and set course 26A ... with a route to the bar.  Its
was a noce change of pace to race back into the club rather than just
sail in ... Congrats to Mark for being the only boat to sail the correct
course and win the race to the bar.  The rest of us rounded the
incorrect green mark.  



Channing


