Santa Cruz Fall Open Report
Mike Holt
2011-10-12

Well all of you who did not make it missed a great weekend for sailing
and racing in Santa Cruz. After the rain during the preceding week the
weekend was clear, sunny, warm and good breeze. Sadly only seven boats
turned up for the idylic conditions that were served up. Excuses were
plentiful and pitiful.

Saturday four races were set and we sailed on the "big" course with the
Hobie 20's and F18's. Race 1 saw the "fleet" split between left and
right side of the beat and at the top Holt Condon and Reeve Dunne came
in with a healthy lead. However a straight set turned out to be the
wrong way with Jeff Miller and Pat Diola and myself and Dave Shelton
passed heading to the shore. By the finnish Bruce Edwards and Mathias
Kennerknecht had also got passed to leave Dave and I winners from Jeff
and Pat. Race 2 started straight after with a little more breeze, Bruce
and Matthias led at the top mark only to let Dave and I past on the run.
Bruce held off Jeff and Pat's charge to take 2nd. Race 3 and the windy
was steady around 15 knots giving perfect racing, Dave and I had
a healthy lead at the top of the 2nd beat only for the spinnaker to
vaporize on setting it. We "wire ran" with main and jib and just held
off Holt and Reeve to take an important 3rd behind Jeff and Pat in 2nd
and Bruce and Matthias in 1st. Without a spinnaker Dave and I missed the
4th race, won by Bruce and Matthias, followed by Jeff and Pat with Hot
and Reeve grabbing 3rd spot.

Saturday evening the YC put on a great Taco feast and we sat on the
balcony putting the World to rights and discussions on kelp removal and
avoidance.

Sunday and more of the same, albeit starting a little lighter. Amazingly
the heavyweights of Bruce and Matthias, weight classified but around the
same all up weight of the Queen Mary, had a huge lead at the top of the
1st beat by hitting the left corner, however Dave and I chipped away at
their lead, finally sneaking past on the final run wiring out to more
pressure on the outside. Holt and Reeve grabbing another 3rd. The points
at the top with a discard were now level between 9002 and 9009 and we
were not going to let Bruce get away so from the start we kept a close
cover on them and rounded the top mark 1st a lead we held to the finish,
Bruce and Matthias held 2nd from Holt and Reeve in third. The third and
final race of the day was essentially a repeat of the previous race with
Dave and I winning, Team Large 2nd and Holt and Reeve again 3rd.

Many thanks to Santa Cruz Yacht Club and Dave Emberson and his team of
helpers, spot on courses, fast turn around of races and a good prize
giving, great job!

Last event of the year is St Francis Fall Dinghy, lets improve on
7 boats there!

Mike
