Kings of the Bay regatta report
Aaron Ross
2011-08-03

Holtie expects everyone is getting as bored with his reports as he is of
writing them. And since he finally won an event, he thinks he's
exonerated. But he was too scared to ask Dr. Miller, so that leaves me,
the only other guy who writes reports.

Nine teams turned out last weekend for the Kings of the Bay Regatta,
hosted by the San Francisco Yacht Club in beautiful Belvedere,
California. Saturday's racing was held on Southampton Shoals, which is
a little to the north of the Berkeley Circle. Being in the lee of Angel
Island, there's a little less breeze and a fair bit less chop. This
course can also be shifted to get just the right amount of breeze. The
race committee nailed the location, and we had 3 perfect races in
15-18+.  Race 1 was a triangle sausage, 2 and 3 were sausage triangle
sausages. All the races were gate starts and downwind finishes, so
racing time was maximized. The longer courses were only 35 minutes long,
so even though there was a lot of corner banging, there was no time to
get bored.  Mike and Carl won the day with a 1,1,1. Howard and Andy
scored a 2,2,2, Jeff and Pat a 3,3,3. Ted with Steve Kleha got a 4,4,4,
and Aaron and Rob recorded a 5,5,5. Tim and Garth got a 6,7,6, with
Geoff and Reeve breaking the trend with a 6 in race 2. While preparing
to be the pathfinder for race 3, Geoff decided now would be a good time
to break a rudder gudgeon.

Back on shore, the club wheeled out a dock cart full of beer on ice and
a barbecue with all the trimmings. A comprehensive debrief followed.

Since the 2012 North Americans will be at SFYC, the fleet and the race
committee took the opportunity to try a new race course on Sunday. We
sailed the Knox course, very close to the club between Angel Island and
the Marin headlands. With 8-14 knots of breeze, 4 knots of current and
geographically shifty breeze, the results were not a repeat of Saturday.
Jeff and Pat won the day with a 1,3,2. Howard and Andy would have won
the day, but they were outsmarted and outmanoeuvred at the finish of
race 4 by the incredibly handsome team of Aaron and Rob. Mike and Carl
scored a 2,2,3, enough to hold onto the regatta win. There was much
place changing between fourth and seventh in each race. So even though
the conditions were not as exciting as Saturday, there was never a dull
moment.

Back on shore, the club wheeled out another cart full of beer and
presented trophies, engraved hot toddy sized thermoses for the top three
helms and crews.

A big thank you to the San Francisco Yacht Club staff and volunteers,
including the local 505 team of Mark Dowdy and Jason Bright. You can
always count on the club to put on a great regatta with excellent on
shore facilities, race management and logistics. Plus it's always sunny
and warm on the club's deck, it's the best place to be after a day on
the Bay. God would live in Belvedere if he could afford it. The 2012
North Americans at SFYC is a regatta not to be missed. And unlike the
Saint Francis, you can leave your hat on...

Cheers, Aaron
