ABYC Midwinter Regatta
Gary Lee
2011-02-21

Nine teams ignored the foreboding weather forecast for the Midwinters
and were treated to some great racing in pretty nice conditions.  We
enjoyed the company of two new (to our fleet anyway) lady sailors, Amy
Huebner sailing with Channing Hamlet and Stine Calavas sailing with Bill
McKinney. The weekend started out interesting with a big squall coming
through just as the boats were sailing out to the race course.  I don't
know how windy it was, but we quickly shook in two reefs, raked to zero,
and took shelter in the lee of an oil island.  Those things do come in
handy some times.

By the time the first race started, the wind had died back down.  We
shook out the reefs and stood the mast up again.  The" unique" ABYC
starting sequence caused a bit of confusion for several teams.  We,
along with Huber Guy and a couple of other boats, had what seemed to be
great starts way ahead the rest of the fleet.  After about a minute of
sailing Huber realized we had started one minute prematurely and turned
around to restart.  We took a while to digest what was happening but
eventually caught on and restarted also.  (It was a long way back).

The race was a long one - three laps - giving those who started early
a chance to catch back up.  Also, a few bots didn't make the start on
time, including Amy and Channing who capsized in the channel during the
squall.  Channing attributed the capsize to poor crew work (he was
crewing).  Ian O'leary "won" the race, only to find out later that he
was OCS.  Huber overtook Aaron/Rob to claim first place, we managed to
climb back to 3rd.

The second race was sailed in moderate, shifty conditions.  The big
excitement was the big black cloud that was approaching the race course.
This cloud carried heavy rain, thunder and lightning.  We managed to
complete the race before the squall hit.  Waiting around for the third
race, the cloud came closer and closer.  The R/C wisely decided to call
the race as waves of thunder seemed to be directly overhead.  Moments
later, the wind ad rain hit. We were treated to a wild two-sail reach
back to the harbor entrance, planing at warp speed against the swell
leftover from the previous night's South wind.  It was a blast.

Sunday featured chamber of commerce weather, sunny, clear, crisp, with
gleaming snow in the mountains.  We had enough breeze that all teams
were trapezing upwind most of the time.  Three races were held, all very
tight with numerous lead changes.  One of the interesting decisions to
be made was whether to wire reach or go DDW.  We tried wire reaching
a few times and although it seemed fast, we always lost out to those
that ran off.  Other teams that tried wire reaching in the marginal
conditions seemed to lose also.

Aaron/Rob mastered the shifts and won the first race of the day.  The
two gals, Amy and Stine finished one-two in the second race.  Dan and
I managed to win the hotly contested third race, coming from behind
after doing circles for a collision with Aaron and Rob. 

Final standings were: 1st: Gary / Dan 7pts 2nd: Huber / ?? 11pts 3rd:
Aaron / Rob 12pts
