https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/295022/505-Euro-Cup-Series-Leg-1-in-La-Rochelle-overall

505 Euro Cup Series Leg 1 at La Rochelle Nautique, France - Overall
by Mike Holt 6 Apr 09:14 BST
3-5 April 2026

The third and final day of the first 505 Euro Cup of 2026 concluded in
La Rochelle on Sunday, hosted by La Rochelle Nautique, a lovely club on
the West Coast of France. The 42 teams racing have enjoyed tight and
interesting racing in varied conditions.

After a breezy, cold and damp first day, followed by a sunny and lighter
day 2 we were expecting another sunny and light day for the finale. As
it turned out we ended up with better conditions than expected, with sun
shine and 7-10 knots of Westerly wind.

The first race of the day and the 8th in total was started by Swiss team
of Cedric Bart and Rene Betschen. However, this race being the rabbit
was not the winning ticket with the early starters coming out of the
left leading around the first mark. A tight battle between overall
leaders Jan Phillip Hoffman and Felix Brockerhoff of Germany and Mike
Holt and Rob Woelfel from the USA with the Germans coming out on top,
third were the fast improving French team of Maxime Paul and Ludovic
Roblin.

Race nine followed a similar pattern with the left again coming out on
top, Paul Brotherton and James Fawcett of the UK managed to secure their
third win of the event but behind them were JP and Felix, a 2nd easily
good enough to give them the win with a race to spare. In third were the
French team of Herve De Kergariou and Valentin Dechauffour.

With JP and Felix locked in for first the fight in the last race was for
the minor places. Having seen the left side of the course pay in the
first to races, all of the protagonists opted to start early in the
gate, opened by British team of Rob Gullans and Paul Childs. This time
the right won, giving Rob and Paul a handy lead at the top mark that
they had nl intention of relinquishing. With the leading contenders
buried deep in the fleet the race was on to see if anyone could pull
through. As it turned out they couldn't and all of them "played" their
discard. Following Rob and Paul was Phillippe Boîte and Timothy Chiron
from France and in third Timon Treichel and Morten Roos of Germany.

Overall then JP and Felix take round one, followed by Mike and Rob, Paul
and James were in third, Howie Hamlin and Jeff Nelson in 4th and Ian
Pinnell and Rich Mundell rounded out the top 5.

La Rochelle was a new venue for the 505 class for a Euro Cup and was
very popular with competitors, great race management, fun ashore and top
facilities. We will be back.

As usual with the 5o5 Class, 2 training days before the racing and daily
debriefs and sharing of information on boat set-up, tactics and boat
handling, was extremely popular and useful.

-------------------------



