http://kyc.clubexpress.com/content.aspx?page_id=22&club_id=125850&module_id=136232

2013 5o5 PCC

The International 505 Pacific Coast Championships this weekend at
Kitsilano Yacht Club in Vancouver, BC was a fantastic regatta, and if
you weren't there you have no idea what you missed.  So, I'll try to
explain.  Three days of sunshine, warm temperatures, and perfect breeze
for 505 racing on English Bay.

Friday the 14 boat fleet was with 12- 15 knots out of the West
completing four races.  Competition was very tight with Krysia Pohl
/ Jon Henderson leading the fleet by one point over Pierre Jeangirard
/ Paul Von Grey.  Racing was followed by a delicious lasagna feast
acompanied by a beautiful sunset and anticipation among the competitors
whether the breeze would hold for the next day.

Sure enough, racers woke up to a stiff 15-25 knot sea breeze, which
provided challenging sailing and some great spinnaker rides.  The race
committee kept the fleet on their toes adjusting the weather mark for
the varying conditions for four more races.  Paul and Pierre showed
tremendous ability while Krysia and Jon missed race seven replacing
a top batten that shook out of the mainsail.

While enjoying another fabulous KYC BBQ dinner telling sea stories,
a few sailors noticed a house on fire across the bay very close to where
Cynthia and Charles were graciously putting up several teams.
Fortunately their house was not burned, but sadly two houses a few
blocks away were destroyed.  The excitement was followed by a debrief
emceed by PVG where sailing knowledge and tips were shared.  Local 505
legend Robin Brown coming out of retirement sailing with Phillip Cragg,
sitting in 3rd place, made a dramatic exit on his Harley Davidson
motorcycle.

Sunday morning the athletes looked grateful to see the 10-15 knots for
races eight through twelve.  With only a three point difference between
1st and 2nd place, it was very aggressive on the starting line with both
teams over the line on race nine.  Great sailing was awarded with very
cool hand carved native Squamish tribal art.

KYC did an outstanding job on all accounts.   The local fleet was very
accommodating to the teams travelling from afar, including Patrick
McGale coming from the UK.  Also, good to see some young blood in the
International 505 fleet.  Thanks to Commodore Evan Jennings and Vice
Commodore Brian Trainor and all of the others who helped put on a great
regatta.

Jon Henderson

Flying Lettuce And Tomatoes  USA 8829
