St. Francis Spring Updated March 20, 2000. Includes further stuff from Chris,
Dan, Ian, Grant and Ben.  Results

Just as the California Monsoon season ended the first 505 regatta of the season
got under way. The always cold, windy and wet regatta started off with a
postponement due to light winds and lots of tide, but the sun was blazing! The
large 505 fleet was in for a treat as the breeze built to 10+- knts and the
racing under way. We sailed two races and Mike Martin and new crew Chuck showed
us how to do it. The posted a 1,2 for the day. After a post racing tuning
session under the GG bridge the fleet returned to the club for a fleet meeting
debrief session led by our World Champ Howard. I think every one learned
something except Don Smith who was in the Bar Guarding Nick Adamson's and my
fiancés besides running up my bar tab...! (Ed. let me be sure I understand
this, you left Don Smith in the bar, with your tab information and your
fiancé?) Sunday dawned clear and a bit of breeze on. Nick and Allan put on a
starting clinic and won the first race. Then the breeze filled in and Bruce and
Dave took the next two to win the regatta one point up on Howard and Don and
two points up on Nick and Allan! It was great regatta with lots of new faces in
our fleet as well as old ones coming back. I don't have all the results but I'm
sure the St. Francis YC web site would post them soon.

David Shelton USA 8680

Oh last but not least... The lame excuse area...

Eric Willis... Feeling pressure from Shelton engagement and moved into an old
School bus in Bonny Dune.... Now Enrolled in the Bruce Edward's excuse making
grad school program. (going for doctor of lame excuses deg)

Andy Zinn.... Went to Family reunion and got confused when they all were named
Zinn....

Danny Tompson....Head down in the middle of Saddle Back Mountain (Ed. Huh?
Whhhhat?... never mind...)

Bruce Tilly... Shoveling horse poo... Sounds like an Edward's excuse...

And the Best for last... Benny got a job!

Sunday felt like a St. Francis summer regatta, great downwind runs full bore on
the wire! An excellent turnout of 17 boats is the largest in recent memory.
Evert Meyer and Chris Hanke had the benefit of crewing for guest skipper Andy
Beeckman with new Ulman Sails up for the first time. Evert crewed on Saturday
and Chris on Sunday (we timed it right, with Chris's size helping in the
breeze).

The debriefing clinic on Saturday night was excellent, something I haven't seen
in other classes, especially with a World champ leading the discussion.

Chris Hanke USA8593

Thanks Howie for the rig tips, Mike for allowing us to take pictures of some
new rigging ideas from his boat, Bruce/Dave for words of encouragement, and
Paul/Jason for coming down from Washington to play with us in the Bay. From one
down in the standings who saw as many transoms as smiles on the dock after
racing, I have to say thanks to all that showed up this weekend to give me my
first real dose of 5o5 fun. See you in Marina del Rey next month.  Dan USA 7886

Ian and I, aboard 6227, had a whale of time this weekend. The information
exchange on Saturday was excellent.  If anyone needs tips on how to capsize a
505 I can help :) Thanks Grant/Ian 6227

Oh capsizing, I can help out there too. Bailey and I hold the Turtle Award for
most capsizes last weekend. Vitals for capsizing include leaving the jib
cleated to windward through a tack (very effective) and if that fails just have
the skipper slide off the transom on his shiny new nylon Hawaiian shorts. I'm
working with Howard to develop a chart for these techniques in varied wind
conditions.  Ben
