Hampton Trapeze

On Friday Todd and I stepped out into the rain, derigged the boat and packed it
up while soaking ourselves. We then got into the car for what we thought was a
three hour drive. It ended up being nine rain soaked hours pulling two boats
with a overheating car (drive a mile, wait 20 minutes). Given all this misery,
the regatta was totally worth it and I'd do it again in a second to go back.

Saturday morning started out looking really bleak with a forecast for no wind
and a front parked on top of us. We ended up having 8-15 knots of wind with
totally flat water and brilliant sunny skies and temperatures in the 80s:
perfect 505 conditions. The commitee proceeded to blast off four races that
day. While the results were virtually the same in each race, that doesn't show
how close the competition got at times.

The day ended with us back at the club and the 505's making it to the keg
first. I'm sure you all know what happened next. We checked out the downtown
Hampton block party, Henry's latest favorite local bar, the usual dares to do
cartwheels (led by Ali). Then part of the group decided to make a traditional
Hampton "Creek Crawl" in Henry's Mako; causing the lawyer in the ashore group
to comment, "Its guys like that that keep guys like me in buisness," as we
watched them narrowly miss a few moored boats at the marina. Apparently some of
the group (who shall remain nameless) had trouble crossing the living room
floor when they got back to Henry's for the night.

Sunday brought some hangovers, lighter breezes and few more boats, including
Tyler Moore/Steve Sparkman and Ali Meller/Sue (Quantum, what's that blue logo?)
Miller. The course provided a very interesting tactical choice between the
better breeze on one side and favorable current on the other. We got in three
more races. The day ended with Henry and Doug playing off Tyler and Ryan on the
run to win the final race and the regatta.

Congratulations to the brothers on their win and thanks for the hospitality.

I'd also like to thank Hampton Yacht Club for putting on a wonderful event as
well as Emory Morgan who fixed my car while we were out sailing.

Dustin Romey 8735
