505 Regatta (Not North American Championship)
Kevin Taugher
2020-09-20

Hey 505ers, see below for our regatta recap and results. It certainly
felt great to race 505s again after so many months and to catch up with
old friends. We were thankful of ABYC for still welcoming the fleet
for the weekend and all the sailors were great about wearing masks and
social distancing on shore. The weather was a little unusual though. We
were fortunate to have smoke-free air with just a light haze all week.
A few boats arrived the prior weekend and sailed from Sunday to
Wednesday evenings in perfect Long Beach conditions of 12-16 knots, warm
water and surfable waves. But by Friday the wind crapped out and we
sailed three days in 5-8 knots with crews counting on one hand how many
times they could actually hit the trap. Oddly enough, Monday (the day
after the regatta ended) we were back to normal conditions. Oh well,
that's how it goes sometimes.

But despite the light winds, everyone commented on how good and tight
the racing was. We sailed a ton of races (13 in all) double W-L courses
and I can't remember being able to round a mark without another boat
overlapped or close by. It was great racing. I guess that happens with
light winds and top notch sailors. The fleet was deep for just 10 boats,
but Howie and Andy made us all look like amateurs, easily winning most
of the races. They had excellent upwind speed and height and didn't seem
to miss a shift. They didn't lose an inch downwind either. At times
other teams were able to get ahead of them but in the end we could only
manage to take a couple races from them.

I was happy to partner with Garrett Brown who is relatively new to 505s
but has lots of I-14 experience and is an excellent all around sailor.
We practiced all summer with Team Tuesday but never in non trapezing
conditions so we had some things to work out especially downwind and
with boat set up upwind. 

As usual, Mike and Adam were competitive and always in the mix in just
about every race, pushing right to the end as a testament to their
competitive spirit. When did Mike get good in light air? Uh oh. Racing
was so tight that we even had to spend time during the debriefs to
refresh ourselves on rules and unravel some of the daily transgressions,
which there were a few good ones. I think it was the covid. 

Mike Holt brought down his Ovington and partnered with local LB 505
legend and master (swimmer) Don Smith and ripped off a few top races
especially on the last day with a strong string of 2nd place finishes.
I'm sure they would have done better had Holtie's boat been rigged in
a normal manner. That capsize was not your fault Don.

Next up was the team of Reeve Dunne and Morgan Pinckney who were steady
the entire weekend and showed us great form especially with run-away
bullets in the last two races. Were they the only ones smart enough to
gate early and head to the left corner when the wind is from 180 in LB.
Maybe so. Morgan is just 15 years old and is super enthusiastic about
sailing. He sails everything he can and has been a regular on Team
Tuesday all summer. He's a real up and coming talent to keep your eyes
on for sure. 

Parker and Eric strung together some strong races and were always in the
mix but were definitely not super comfortable in the non-trapping
conditions. These guys are a top team and work really hard. They
continually test gear and ask questions and will for sure hit that high
level of consistency real soon.

Pierre and Chris emerged from their smokey hideouts for some fresh air.
Chris from Seattle (I think) and Pierre from Mammoth Lakes. You could
see the constant smiles on their faces. They lead the final race on
Saturday wire-wire with and excellent start and first beat only to have
Howard and Andy reel them in by the finish and steal their thunder. But
amazing speed for sure. 

Brian and Phil have been steady on Team Tuesday this summer and it's
been great to have them out each week. Phil is a bit more on the Star
crew size right now so light air was a bit of a stretch for them, but
they smoked us pretty good when the wind was up on the practice days.
Unfortunately Phil is moving to that eastern sailing mecca known as
Pittsburg PA and we'll miss him. Hopefully he'll come to his senses and
be back soon.

Tim Murphy showed up with an awesome looking 8937 (my old boat) and
sailed with his 15 year old son Jack who tops out at 140 pounds wet.
Lucky for them the wind stayed in their wheel-house and they were
competitive. I recall them holding good lanes and young Jack at full
trap while other crews were hitting their heads on the boom. Great for
Jack for putting up with his dad all weekend.

Rob and Aaron rounded out the fleet. Aaron sporting some serious covid
hair and beard while Rob looked like he was overdue for a chiropractor
appointment. I wonder if Rob's back has straightened out yet. I kept
feeding him cold beers (flavored water as Holtie says) until a smile
re-emerged which only seemed to take a sip or two. Always great to see
A-A-Ron and Rob, a couple of class acts. 



Kevin Taugher


ARTICLE


The 505 North American Championship was supposed to be held at ABYC the
last weekend of September. However, the pandemic had other ideas and the
event was cancelled and will be hosted by ABYC in September 2022.
Instead, conforming to our current event requirements, five west coast
505’s made the trip to ABYC, joining the 6 ABYC 505s for three days of
racing. With the wind never exceeding 8 knots, 13 races were run over
3 days outside the Federal breakwater. Robin and Mark Townsend ran the
race committee and set the gate mark, Kevin Brown and Chuck Tripp worked
weather mark, with Jennifer and Steve Kuritz filling in the gaps on
Friday.



The 505 class use a “rabbit start”. A pathfinder is selected, usually
the fourth-place boat from the previous race and at the start signal
they round the port end start mark and sail a port close-hauled course.
The rest of the fleet starts on starboard tack and ducks the transom of
the pathfinder to start. After 20 seconds the pathfinder is released
with a sound signal and can tack to starboard or continue on port.



Past World Champion Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn dominated the three days
of racing with ten 1st places in 13 races, choosing to use their discard
and not to sail the last race. Kevin Taugher and Garrett Brown finished
second with nine finishes in the top three. Four-time and current World
Champion Mike Martin and Adam Lowry in third, and three-time World
Champion Mike Holt and Don Smith in fourth. It was small high-quality
fleet.


Each day after racing the 505 sailors all sat on the patio
(appropriately distanced) and discussed the days racing providing tips
to each other as to how they could improve. Multi time World Champion
Pete Melvin was out watching and shared his observations on what the
leaders were doing that the other boats should try. The 505 sailors are
all willing to share their go-fast secrets to improve the performance of
others. The philosophy is that everyone improves when the fleet is more
competitive. Probably why we had multiple World Champions on water for
a 11-boat regatta. A lesson from which other fleets could learn.
