https://www.sail-world.com/news/275808/505-UK-Nationals-at-Rock

505 UK National and Open Championship at Rock Sailing and Waterski Club

by Dave Hughes 11 Jun 11:03 UTC

6-9 June 2024

Howie Hamlin and Andy Zinn of the USA bested a fleet of 25 teams
representing five countries to claim the 2024 International 505 UK
National and Open Championship title. The duo built upon their victory
last month at the North Americans in Long Beach, CA.

Hosted by the Rock Sailing and Water Ski Club on the northern shores of
Cornwall four days of racing saw 10 races in a variety of conditions.
Winds of eight to 18 knots were punctuated by challenging swell and
a postcard-perfect backdrop of the rocky English coast. The club and
town of Rock opened its arms to the sailors and warmly celebrated the
505's historic 70th anniversary.


Mike Holt/Carl Smith and Michael Sims/Carl Gibson took second and third
place, respectively. Six different teams won individual races.

Hamlin, 71, gave an incredibly heartfelt speech at the prize-giving,
thanking his crew, wife Julie, and long friendship with the class. He
highlighted a humble gratefulness to be competing into his 70s. Always
preceded by an energetic smile Howie's "youth" and experience is
certainly an inspiration for all.

---------------------------

https://505news.co.uk/hamelin-zinn-win-at-2024-uk-nationals-in-rock/

Hamelin & Zinn Win at 2024 UK Nationals in Rock

Long Beach Sailors Howard Hamelin and Andy Zinn win at Rock…

The UK 505 Open National Championship was held 6-9 June at Rock in
Cornwall. Rock is an iconic venue where the launch and sail out of
a harbour full of sand bars and shoals – then out the past waves of the
legendary Doom Bar into Padstow Bay.

We had 26 boats with visitors from Australia, USA, Canada and France.
We competed in 10 races over 4 days with conditions typically force 3-4
and plenty of the waves that Cornwall is famous for.

The 2-3 lap windward-leeward races were very close with a mistake at the
front of the fleet usually costing several places.  There were
6 different race winners  Hamelin & Zinn (USA), Mike Holt & Carl Smit
(USA), Roger Gilbert & Ian Mitchell (GBR), Philippe Boite & Marin Carnot
(FRA), Nathan Batchelor & Chris Turner (GBR) with Dave Ellis & Jim Hunt
(GBR) rounding off a strong finish with a win in the last race.

Overall though Howard Hamelin & Andy Zinn were the only team to fully
master Padstow Bay and deliver a relentlessly polished and consistent
performance to  win from Mike Holt and Carl Smit with top GBR team
Michael Sims and Carl Gibson from Burton SC in 3rd. Having also won the
North American Championships a few weeks ago Howard and Zinn are going
to be one of the teams to beat for the forthcoming Worlds in Varberg
Sweden.

In their second Nationals Ben McLaughlin and Joe Hotchkiss from Clevedon
SC won the Endeavour Trophy for sailing hard all week with massive grins
and reaping the rewards as they improved and raced better every day.

Thanks to Rock who were the perfect hosts with the highlight a dinner to
celebrate the 70th Anniversary of the class on saturday night
– miraculously conjured from a tiny kitchen for 70 people.

Next Year the UK Nationals will be at Weymouth in June and then in 2026
the Worlds are coming to Hayling Island.

