https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/274711/505-Southerns-at-Hayling-Island

505 Southern Championships at Hayling Island Sailing Club
by Mark Nicholson 14 May 23:05 BST
11-12 May 2024

Eleven 505s joined the burgeoning Hayling 505 fleet for a weekend
forecast to have glorious weather. The Southerns were part of a joint
event with Fireballs, Contenders and Ospreys, making for a very busy
start area.

On Saturday we launched in a brisk SE 11-14 knots which stayed with us
for the first race. A tight battle up the first beat saw Roger Gilbert
and Ian Mitchell lead around followed by Duncan Barr/ Scott Dawson and
Michael Simms/Carl Gibbon. A surprise appearance of "Pinkie" (us) in
fourth, the oldest boat in the fleet, was short lived as the occupants'
showed their rustiness in 505 racing! The leading boat continued to the
line, followed by Sims/Gibbon.

Race 2 started in about 10/11 knots but faded a little. Again
Gilbert/Mitchell won, with Barr/Dawson second.

Race three became the 8/9 knot unsympathetic crew knee busting torture
upwind - certainly for the older crews! Nevertheless, a tight race
ensued with the whole fleet together, no stragglers. Gilbert/Mitchell
won, with Tewkesbury's Charlie and Owen second, Barr/Dawson third. The
breeze stayed with us to take us home through the shoreline gap in the
famous Hayling Bar, to lead us back to the infamous Hayling Bar - and
excellent curry.

Lighter winds were forecast for Sunday and this proved accurate with
much tighter racing as a result. Gareth Caldwell and Tyler Harmsworth
appeared to favour these conditions as they battled with leaders
Sims/Gibbon and Barr/Dawson. In race 5, a return to form for
Gilbert/Mitchell as the crossed first followed by Sims/Gibbon with
chandler/ Mills taking third. In the final race an over enthusiastic
start by Gilbert and Mitchell meant they were OCS.

This opened the door for a new winner as Barr/Dawson took the line,
followed by sims/Gibbon and another third for Caldwell/ Harmsworth.

This wrapped up six very tight races in a light to moderate shifty
breeze. The HISC race team provided excellent racing, turning each race
around swiftly. With blues skies and sunshine all weekend the
competitors seemed to have had a great time both on and off the water.

The 505s next event is leg 2 of their EuroCup at Lake Garda at the end
of May.
