Final Report

Ex intercollegiate All Americans and members of the current World Team
Racing championship team, Nick Trotman/Mike Mills, had finishes of 3,6
in the last two races (sailed on Sunday) which was enough to give them
the Canadian Championship. Canadians Jeff Boyd/Martin tenHove had
finishes of 4,1,8,1 over the last four races, but fell 1 point short of
Trotman/Mill's total points.

The thirty-three 505 teams competing made it the largest 505 Canadian
Championship in many years. Only 6 of the scheduled 7 races were run due
to uncooperative weather.

College sailor of the year 1994, Tyler Moore, sailing with Scott Ikle,
sailing coach at Hobart-William Smith College were leading the
penultimate race, but found a large hole on the last leg and dropped to
fifth. Those additional points were the difference between them and the
leaders, as they finished 2.25 points out of second, and only 3.25
points out of first.

Past 470 North American champion Tim Collins and Bill Smith were 4th,
only eight points back of the Moore/Ikle team. Finishes of 7,6,10 in the
last three races pulled the 1981 World Championship team of Ethan
Bixby/Cam Lewis down to 5th, just 0.25 points out of 4th, and just one
point ahead of Neal Fowler/Dave Dyson in 6th,and another point ahead of
brothers Henry and Doug Amthor.


Sunday Report

Sunday morning was mostly sunny, but with a light northeasterly breeze
almost 180 degrees from the hoped-for Kingston seabreeze. Though shifty,
there was enough breeze to race. The fleet was tightly packed at the
first weather mark, but then started to spread out on the first reach,
as the leaders were able to sail the rhumb line in clear air, while back
about 10th place or so, a luffing match that took a number of boats well
above the rhumb line was taking place. The breeze got lighter on the
second reach and then almost died up the next beat, with teams on the
left of the beat staying in the breeze a little longer, and more than
making up for a large shift to the right. The run was now a port tack
reach, until the leaders approached the leeward mark, which was
surrouned by a large dead zone. Moore/Ikle, handily leading the race,
tried to close reach along the rhumb line, but ran out of pressure and
stopped. Several following teams went very high chasing puffs, with some
of them breaking through and then managing to gybe and get through the
deadzone in time to pick up a puff filling in from the other side that
had allowed some mid fleeters to close up with the lead pack. Many
positions were shuffled as boats drifted into the leeward mark, which
due to a shortened course, was now the finish line.

Tim Collins/Bill Smith won the race, with the Amthor/Amthor team coming
through from about 9th, to finish 2nd. Trotman/Mills were 3rd,
Fowler/Dyson 4th and Moore/Ikle fell to 5th.

After a delay while hoping that the seabreeze would establish itself,
the RC started race #6. The rabbit, Boyd/tenHove capitalized on a wind
shift before the start to sail the favoured tack (port)towards the
weather mark, while most of the fleet held to starboard. A clocking
shift put Boyd/tenHove well into the lead, and they were never seriously
threatened, winning the race, and narrowly missing winning the event.
Trotman/Mills sailed their throwout, 6th. Moore/Ikle were 9th sailing
their throwout as well. Jim Englert/Thad Melton were 2nd and Henry
Amthor/doug Amthor 3rd in the race, while Fowler/Dyson were 4th. John
Bryant/Ron Hughes rounded the first weather mark in 3rd, but were run
over on the first reach by several teams. They finished 11th. Clarissa
Bush/Chris Gillies were 7th, an excellent result after finishing most
races in the 20s.


Saturday Report

Saturday morning was overcast, spitting with rain, and had lighter wind
than Friday, from the south-southwest. The KYC Race Committee led by
Peter Schell got a start off on time. The rabbit, Ali Meller/Matt Breton
heard a large bang as Brook Hamilton/Wayne Brox of Canada rammed the
heavy aluminum gate launch. Being a Waterat, the boat suffered minimal
damage, and was able to race. The gate launch is reported to be fine as
well. The wind lightened and then shifted north with each rain shower
going through, resulting in teams hoisting spinnakers on the first
"windward" leg. The leaders took over an hour to get to the "windward"
mark. The race was abandoned as the leaders reached high on the first
reach. Most of the fleet sailed into Kingston Yacht Club, which is only
minutes from the race course, to wait ashore for more breeze.

The re-sailed 3rd race was finally started around noon, in a 6-7 knot
west-southwest breeze. The wind clocked to the north a little, making
the first reach broader, and the second very tight. While the same teams
battled at the front of the fleet, the race was won by college sailor of
the year 1994, Tyler Moore, with crew Scott Ikle, sailing coach at
Hobart-William Smith College. Nick Trotman/Mike Mills, winners of both
of yesterday's races were second, the 1981 World Champions, Ethan
Bixby/Cam Lewis were 3rd, and Canadian superstars Jeff Boyd/Martin
tenHove were 4th.

A determined race committee chose to run another race, despite a number
of teams sailing towards KYC hoping to get out of the rain and light
air.

The race was started in even lighter air. The left paid on the first
beat, with teams going left looking for clear air rounding the first
mark in good shape, while most of "the pack" went right-middle. The
first reach was light and quite tight. Being rolled was death, as once
a spinnaker collapsed, teams could not recover before the next 505
rolled them, Bixby/Lewis were able to pass Moore/Ikle for the lead,
while several teams lost five or more places. The wind died to almost
nothing as the leaders approached the gybe mark, compressing the fleet.
Top teams were able to keep enough way on to get around the mark and
escape into what under the circumstances passed for a puff, above the
second reach rhumb line.

It was still quite close at the leeward mark, with Bixby/Lewis leading,
Moore/Ikle 2nd, with Trotman/Mills, Boyd/tenHove and Neal Fowler/Dave
Dyson very close behind. When the wind did fill in, it was from the
right and included a large right shift, leaving Bixby/Lewis on the
outside of the pinwheel. They dropped to 7th. A number of the top places
were reshuffled, with Jim Englert/Thad Melton making the largest gains,
pulling up into 5th. Trotman/Mills hoisted their spinnaker while
approaching the "windward" mark, and passed one boat before having to
douse again, as the "run" was now a reach too close to carry. Teams
further behind benefited from even more breeze on the penultimate
"windward" leg and were planing into the mark with kites up and crews on
the wire. There were no place changes on the last leg - the race was
shortened at the "leeward" mark.

Two races in those conditions was enough for both the fleet and the race
committee, and everyone sailed in and headed for the KYC bar.


Friday Report

Nick Trotman/Mike Mills of Rhode Island lead the 1998 International 505
Canadian Championship with two bullets in two races. Trotman/Mills had
excellent speed and demonstrated flawless tactics in both races. The
1981 505 World Championship team of Ethan Bixby/Cam Lewis are in a three
way tie for second place with finishes of 3,4, along with the team of
Jeff Boyd (ex Laser Canadian Champion and America's Cup 12 metre
helmsman) and Martin tenHove, who have finishes of 2,5, and Tyler
Moore/Scott Ikle who have finishes of 5,2.

Both races had puffs to fifteen knots, which allowed the 505s to easily
plane on the reaches, and occasionally plane upwind.

Thirty-two teams - the largest 505 Canadian Championship in many years
- are racing, with 505s from the growing Kingston and Montreal fleets
joining those from Ottawa and a large number of US teams. Vancouver, the
US midwest, US Midatlantic region and New England are all represented
here.

Bixby/Lewis are racing the same 505 they won the 1981 World Championship
in (Lewis also won the 1982 World Championship with Gary Knapp driving,
in the same boat).

All competitors are enjoying pizza, salad and beer at the home of one of
the Kingston 505 fleet, as I write this report.

Pre Regatta Report

With less than 11 weeks left before the pre-worlds and 505 World
Championship in Hyannis, it is now or never time for North American 505
teams. The legendary Kingston seabreeze and the excellent event
management and hospitality of the Kingston Yacht Club should provide one
of the important events leading up to the World Championship. In
addition to the many Canadian 505 teams, Kingston is a venue very
popular amongst US East Coast and Midwest 505 sailors, so a large US 505
turnout is expected.

