1997 Europa Cup
Leg 1
Y.C. Cavalaire, France
28-31 March 1997

The first event of the 1997 505 Europa Cup was held over the Easter Weekend on
France's Mediterranean Coast, at Cavalaire, about 20km West of St. Tropez.
Champion, a French supermarket chain, were the new event sponsors. 85 teams
from seven countries made the trip to compete and enjoyed four days of blue
skies and close racing.

On Good Friday, the first race was held in a gusty force 5-6 which built during
the race as a Mistral started to blow in earnest. Germans Wolfgang Hunger and
Holger Jess sailed an error free race to win, with French Champions Philippe
Boite and Jean-Paul Muzellec second. Experienced Swiss campaigners Rene
Betschen and Philippe Jacot were third, having overtaken Brits Mark Upton-Brown
and Ian Mitchell in the survival conditions of the last leg. After an hour of
waiting for the wind to abate, during which time it had built to a solid force
7-8, the race officer postponed the second race unitl the next day and what was
left of the fleet struggled in either to fix broken kit or to fond a cold beer.

Saturday dawned a calm and sunny day. Racing was postponed until the sea breeze
filled in. Most of the Brits has spent too long on the beach and were late for
the start. Ronald Roos and Gord Linnerman from Germany eventually won a
difficult race. Upton-Brown / Mitchell, having found clear air on the first
beat after starting a few seconds late at the other end of the line from the
rest of the fleet, overtook Swiss team Caroline Stolz and Ueli Marti on the
last beat to finish second. Hunger/Jess were fourth.

The Westerly gradient wind prevailed for the rest of the day, so that a steady
force 4-5 developed. The thrid race was led from start to finish by
Upton-Brown/Mitchell closely pursued by Hunger/Jess who finished a few
boatlengths behind. Boite/Muzellec moved through the fleet to take third just
ahead of Ian Pinnell and Ian Godfrey. The fourth race was held immediately
after the third in identical conditions. Again, Upton-Brown/Mitcheel took the
gun. Boite/Muzellec were second with one of the handful of excellent Danish
teams Jan Saugmann and Morten Ramsbeck third.

Easter Sunday have a steady force 3-4 for the fifth race. The overall result
was blown wide open as Boite/Muzellec won with Hunger/Jess second and Danes Tom
Bojland and Anders Friss third.

Going into the final race, there were three teams in contention;
Upton-Brown/Mitchell, Boite/Muzellec and Hunger/Jess. Each had to beat the
other two in the final race to win overall. Upton-Brown/Mitchell started
immediately to windward of Hunger/Jess in a steady force 4-5, with
Boite/Muzellec 10 or so boats further to windward. After 2-3 minutes, the
Germans were forced to tack off and join the French who had already tacked and
headed towards the bay to the right of the beat. The Brits were lifted into the
first mark to round first. They sailed away from the fleet to win and take
first place overall. The Germans and French were struggling in the mid-teens at
the first mark. Hunger/Jess recovered to fourth place which gave them second
place overall. Boite/Muzellec finished ninth, a result they discarded, to take
third place overall.
