https://www.yachtsandyachting.com/news/295491/PandB-505-UK-Inland-Championships-at-Northampton

P&B 505 UK Inland Championships at Northampton Sailing Club
by Michael Sims 23 Apr 14:11 BST
18-19 April 2026

Nine teams gathered at Northampton SC for the Pinnell & Bax sponsored
505 Inlands on Saturday and Sunday, with class association training
organised and ran by Ian Mitchell and Oliver Davenport on the Friday
before, giving all those who attended invaluable feedback and additional
time on the water, in what is a big year for the UK fleet, with the
World Championships being held in July, hosted by Hayling Island SC.

Four races were sailed on the Saturday in sunny 12-15mph winds using
gate starts. Whilst the fleet would traditionally use gate start only at
larger events, this proved popular with the World Championships being
only a few months away. Before a lunch break, two races were held. The
first saw Craig Burlton and Richard Anderton round first and initially
extend downwind on what was a traditional 505 windward leeward course.
As the race progressed Mike Sims and Carl Gibbon took the lead, which
they held until the finish. Craig and Richard finished in second, to Ian
Pinnell and Ian Mitchell in third.

The wind had build slightly for race 2, but it was again Mike and Carl
that took line honours, this time leading the fleet from start to finish
and extending. Second was Ian Pinnell and Ian Mitchell, followed by the
new paring of Andy Wilde and Harry Briddon.

After lunch the fleet returned and completed a further two races. The
breeze remained consistent with teams flat wiring upwind, but downwind
was where most gains could be made as gusts passed down the course. It
was Ian Pinnell and Ian Mitchell who mastered the afternoon, winning
both races. Second place in race 3 went to Mike Sims and Carl Gibbon
after a close battle with also newcomers Harvey Hillary and Archie
Massey, eventually finishing in third.

Race 4, saw the minor places go to Craig Burlton and Richard Anderton in
second followed by Mike Sims and Carl Gibbon in third, this was after
the Ian's had left the rest of the fleet in their shadows, winning by
a sizable lead.

On Saturday evening Northampton SC organised a well-earned curry and
extended their typical great hospitality for those that were not in
a rush to leave!

The wind strength had definitely dropped on the Sunday morning, but it
remained a lovely sunny day. In race 5, being pathfinder was definitely
favoured and Mike Sims and Carl Gibbon certainly took advantage, rounded
first and extending to the finish. Second was Craig Burlton and Richard
Anderton, followed by the improving new team of Andy Wilde and Harry
Briddon in third.


In the final race the wind was certainly creating challenging conditions
with big shifts and wind differential across the course. For the first
two laps, it appeared that Mike Sims and Carl Gibbon were becoming very
comfortable leading the fleet, however on the final beat those teams who
had picked the favoured right-hand side made nice gains. This saw Harvey
Hillary and Archie Massey take the lead and hold until the finish,
second was Craig Burlton and Richard Anderton, followed by Andy Wilde
and Harry Briddon in third.

Overall, this meant Mike Sims and Carl Gibbon were the winners, second
was Ian Pinnell and Ian Mitchell, with Harvey Hillary and Archie Massey
finishing their first 505 event in third and looking like an improving
team.

Big thanks go to everybody that helped organise the event, both on and
off the water and the fleet looks forward to returning to Northampton SC
in the future.

The next UK fixture is class organised training between Friday 1st to
Monday 4th May at Hayling Island.

