International 5O5 Mid-West Championships
Regatta Report
South Port Sailing Club,
St Clair Beach, Ontario, Canada

27-28 May 2000


Editor's Note: This was the third year in a row that the Gesings and the
SPSC have hosted a 505 regatta, and this one sounds like it was just as
successful as the last two! I, for one, was very sorry to miss it!
A huge thanks to the Gesings, and everyone else involved in the
organization of this event! Hugh
By Adam Gesing

Starring:

wide-ranging cast of competitors from Indianapolis, Indiana; Columbus,
Ohio; Chicago, Illinois; and Windsor, Toronto, Kingston, and Ottawa,
Ontario.
top gun race committee headed by Mike Agrell from Toronto, with mark
setting by Steve Lovshin from Guelph.
Weather forecast of rain and thunderstorms all weekend (actually on
Saturday a Canadian high deflects the rain and thunderstorms to the
south and we settle in on the dry side of the front for a cloudy windy
12-18 knot day of steady easterlies and interesting waves).
Races:

R1: We sail out in 18 knots from the East. Before the start, Steve Yates
bows too low in his victory prayers to Mecca and splits his forehead on
the centerboard. Bailers are used to drain the blood from the boat as
Yates and Hamilton retire from the race for the necessary head repairs
-- gauze firmly wrapped around the head with, of course, duct tape. The
Gesings play bunny for the first start. On the first tack, Adam's
Vectran trapeze gives, and they retire to switch back to old fashion
wire. Kaiser & Badtke show good speed around the first triangle, but
capsize while in second or maybe even first place, bending the mast and
breaking a spreader; they are done for the day. Bush/Gillies team shows
its speed leaving everyone else a long way behind.

R2: Wind drops to full trapezing 15 knots, Gesings and Hamilton/Yates
are back in contention challenging Bush/Gillies for the top spot. The
latter again show superior upwind speed winning the race ahead of
Hamilton/Yates. Alexander/Badtke sneak in for a third spot.

R3: Wind still at 13-15 knots, Hamilton/Yates, Bush/Gilles and the
Gesings round the last leeward mark in a tight sequence. Hamilton/Yates
and Bush/Gilles duel while Gesings split tacks and at the end pick up
a shift to win the race.

R4: Wind is now down to marginal trapezing at 10-13 allowing lighter
crews to close in on the leaders. Bush/Gilles again pull away on the
upwinds and this time are also fast on the reaches to take another
first. Hamilton/Yates take a second. Alexander/Richmond challenge the
top group, but are nosed out at the finish by the Gesings.

On Sunday morning the American low wins and brings a heavy band of rain
with 18-20 knots from the north east. Low visibility, stinging rain and
the undersized anchor on the race committee boat prevent us from
starting races. After several capsizes most of the fleet is thankful
when the RC calls it a day without starting a race. Kaiser/Badtke,
Gesings and Hamilton/Yates are justifiably disappointed as their
experience and size would favour them in rough conditions, and as it is
they all need to keep their Saturday DNFs.

Three women skippers Katherine, Renka and Clarissa competed making up
fully quarter of the fleet. Clarissa's victory brings back the memory of
the times when the finesse of Sally Lindsay and Ellen Ablo tended to
dominate over the pure brawn of the male skippers.

The other heroes of the weekend are Sandee Dunlop and Huron Valley
Steel. HVS funded all the food for the regatta, and Sandee virtually
single-handedly cooked and served gourmet pancakes, French toast, steaks
and crepes to the entire fleet.

Renka Gesing coordinated the accommodation, which was provided by the
club members on keelboats and private homes. With all the food and
accommodation included in a $60Cdn ($40US) entry fee, the regatta
provided value as well as competition, camaraderie and fun.

Windsor is very conveniently and centrally located with feasible driving
distances encompassing Montreal, Ottawa, Kingston, Toronto, Columbus,
Chicago and Indianapolis and Annapolis. This May was consistently windy,
and the regatta venue on the open 25-mile wide Lake St. Clair provided
excellent sailing conditions. We will plan to do it again next year, so
plan to come and join the fun.
