https://www.sail-world.com/news/280768/A-moment-in-history--1966--Sir-James-Hardy

5o5 Flashback: A moment in history - 1966 - Sir James Hardy
by Pip Pearson 23 Oct 08:50 UTC

With the 5o5 World Championship coming up in Adelaide, Australia, this
historic sailing flashback is a glimpse into the early days of what has
become perhaps the world's most successful sailing dinghy.

The 1966 5o5 World Championships in Adelaide, South Australia, was
particularly significant for Australian yachting - it was the first time
a World Championship had ever been held in the Southern Hemisphere for
any International Yacht Racing Class. A momentous occasion for Adelaide
and for Australia!

There were a total of 68 entries from 17 countries.

The event was held in the waters off the Brighton & Seacliff Yacht Club,
immediately in front of the Hardy Family Home and in the waters that Jim
had sailed for years in his youth & early senior years... the waters
which he knew like the "back of his hand".

Jim sailed the event in the local Adelaide designed and manufactured 5o5
Binks K model.

It was this event that catapulted Jim Hardy (later Sir James Hardy) into
the spotlight of Australian yachting "hierarchy".

After an exciting series of races, the top four placings and the winner
would be decided by the result of the last race.

In spectacular fashion, after getting a very bad start and rounding the
first mark in 22nd place, in a display of grit and determination typical
of Jim, he and crew Max Whitnall fought on through the fleet to cross
the finish line in second, which was the position he needed to win the
event and become the first Australian to win a 5o5 World Championship in
the Southern Hemisphere.

It is no surprise that Jim's 5o5 was named "Black Bottle" - after one of
Hardy Wines' leading brands, a definite winner from the "get go".

Jim, at the time was living in Sydney where he was the Senior Marketing
Manager for Hardy Wines and was the head of the family company in
Sydney.

The publicity resulting from this win attracted the attention of the
upper echelons of Australian Yachting, and it was this and the resulting
profile that paved the way for Jim's entry into the international
spotlight. His America's Cup, Admiral's Cup and Olympic history in
Australian Yachting is legendary - and although Sir James, also referred
to very fondly as "Gentleman Jim", is no longer with us, his legend and
his legacy lives on.

We are thrilled to name the 2025 International 5o5s Pre Worlds Regatta
in honour of Sir James Hardy.

