https://505.ca/2024-eastern-canadian-championships-report/

2024 Eastern Canadian Championships Report

Posted on August 14, 2024 by Content Elf

The 2024 Eastern Canadian Championships will be remembered for the high
wind sailing conditions. Racing was cancelled after one race on
Saturday, as the wind speed reached 30 knots. Three races weresailed on
Sunday in 15 to 23 knots of wind before the breeze built to the point
that the RC sent sailors in. Twenty teams, including 15 sailors under 25
years old, participated in the event hosted at Kingston Yacht Club on
August 10-11.


Ali Meller (who moved permanently to Kingston this year) sailing with
Kyber Lovshin won the event placing 1 st in 3 of the 4 races series. Two
USA teams place 2 nd and 3 rd, Duane Delfosse/Mike Hull in 2 ndand
Thomas Kivney/Gordon Russell in 3 rd .

During the awards ceremony, Ali told the story that when he started
sailing the 505 back in the 70’s he was mentored by John Moss (Shona
Moss-Lovshin’s father and Kyber’s grandfather) and now he was able to
win this event with the help of his grand-child.

The top youth sailor (Under 19 years old) was Sabina Bartlewska from
Toronto, racing with her father Robert. The top female skipper was
Debbie Ashby from Ottawa, who placed 5 th overall sailing with her
husband Dave Adams. The Storer brothers from Ottawa both U19 sailors
placed 13 th overall and 1 st youth team.


Jeff Boyd high light the effort and success of Shona Moss for the
recruitment of younger sailors in the class. Jeff said that he had never
been to a 505 regatta were parents ask him for advises. The Canadian
Class would like to thank Jeff Boyd for the organization of the event,
Bill Visser the Race committee chair who did a fantastic job with his RC
team, the Kingston Yacht Club and its manager Tom Wilson for their
hospitality.

NB: Ali Meller (who is a Kingston Sail Loft (KSL) partner) was racing
with a prototype KSL 505 Spinnaker. The spinnaker is a full triradial
design with all panels arranged to line up warp threads with the loads
radiating out from the corners. Kyber reported that it was very easy to
fly.

----------------------------------------------

https://nsc.ca/an/blog/2024-505-ecc-report/

2024 Eastern Canadian 505 Championship
By Public Relations 2024-08-26

Conditions

Twenty teams, including 15 sailors under 25 years old, participated in
the 2024 Eastern Canadian 505 Championships at Kingston Yacht Club on
August 10-11.

The event featured high wind sailing conditions. The race committee
canceled racing after one race on Saturday due to 30-knot winds. On
Sunday, sailors completed three races in 15 to 23 knots of wind before
the breeze intensified, prompting the RC to send sailors back to the
dock.

Participants and Results

Ali Meller, who moved permanently to Kingston
this year, sailed with Kyber Lovshin and won the event by placing 1st in
3 of the 4 races. Two USA teams, Duane Delfosse/Mike Hull and Thomas
Kivney/Gordon Russell, placed 2nd and 3rd, respectively.

During the awards ceremony, Ali shared how he began sailing 505s in the
1970s. John Moss, Shona Moss’s father and Kyber’s grandfather, mentored
him. Now, Ali won this event with the assistance of John’s grandson.

Sabina Bartlewska from Toronto, racing with her father Robert, was the
top youth sailor (Under-19). Debbie Ashby from Ottawa, who placed 5th
overall sailing with her husband Dave Adams, was the top female skipper.
The Storer brothers from Ottawa, both U19 sailors, placed 13th overall
and were the top youth team.

Jeff Boyd highlighted Shona Moss’s efforts and success in recruiting
younger sailors to the class. Jeff mentioned that he had never attended
a 505 regatta where parents asked him for advice.

Thank you!

The Canadian Class thanks Jeff Boyd for organizing the event, Bill
Visser, Race Committee Chair, and his RC team for their fantastic work,
and the Kingston Yacht Club and its manager Tom Wilson for their
hospitality.

NB: Ali Meller, a Kingston Sail Loft (KSL) partner, raced with
a prototype KSL 505 Spinnaker. The spinnaker, a full triradial design,
has all panels arranged to align warp threads with the loads radiating
from the corners. Kyber reported that it was very easy to fly.


Submitted by Paul Place
