1997

5o5 North American Championships

Notice of Race

You are invited to attend the 1997 Sea-Land 5o5 North American Championships
Regatta to be held at Alamitos Bay Y.C. Long Beach, CA. July 5 to 11, 1997.

Schedule

	Morning	Afternoon	Evening

2 day pre-NA 4th of July Regatta

July 5 Saturday	 	1:30PM 3 races	 

July 6 Sunday	 	1: 30PM 3 races	 

North American Championship Regatta

July 7 Monday	Measurement	Speed Clinic	Opening Reception & BBQ

July 8 Tuesday	 	1:30PM 2 races	Restaurant Night

July 9 Wednesday	 	1:30PM 2 races	AGM Night at ABYC

July 10 Thursday	Organized Surfing	1:30PM 2 races	 

July 11 Friday	 	1:30PM 2 races	Awards Dinner

Alamitos Bay YC is located in Long Beach, southeast of the Ports of Los
Angeles/Long Beach. Sailing venue is 1.5 miles from the club in open ocean.
Course conditions include a building sea breeze of 10 to 18 knots and water
temperatures between 64 and 68 degrees. The club facility is very family
friendly with a grass patio and adjacent public beaches.

Sea-Land is very gratiously providing free shipping for a container from the
East Coast and return for this event.

For further information contact:

Mike Martin

mmartin@cbm.canon.com

The 41st Annual International 505 North American Championship is being

held from July 7th to the 11th, at the Alamitos Bay Yacht Club, in Long

Beach California.

Fact Sheet

RACE:

41st International 505 Class North American Championship

DATE:

Warmup Event

Competition - July 5-6, 1997

North American Championship

Registration & Boat Measurement- July 7, 1997

Competition - July 8-12, 1997

TIME:

1:30PM each race day (weather permitting)

CLASS:

International 505 - The premier high performance two person racing

dinghy around the world. One of the most widespread - if not the most

widespread - high performance dinghy classes. The largest and most

active two person high performance dinghy classes in North America. The

boat preferred by many of the World's top dinghy racers.

SPONSORS:

SeaLand

Mocean

Ronstan

West Marine

Ullman Sails

Team McLube

COURSE:

Location - off Long Beach, California, USA

Length - 14 miles

505 World Championship-style course minus the last leg, with eight legs

	- gate start, windward, reach, reach, windward, leeward, windward,

	reach, reach, finish

	course diagram

	FORMAT:

	Eight races with each team's worst race finish discarded.


1997 SeaLand International 505 North American Championship

Daily Reports

Warm Up Regatta

Saturday, July 5th, 1997.

Twenty four 505s raced today in the ABYC 4th of July Regatta, more teams were
arriving all day and this evening. We expect almost ten more 505s on the line
on Sunday. Today was beautiful, warm and sunny. Conditions were light, with
only a few moments of trapezing. Racing has been close, with much of the fleet
arriving at the first windward mark at the same time. The Rhode Island team of
Tim Collins/Bill Smith are leading the warm up event after three races. There
3rd race win vaulted them into the lead by one point. Close behind are Howard
Hamlin/Mike Martin, Nick Trotman, Mike Mills, Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle, and
several other teams.

Sunday, July 6th, 1997.

Three Way Tie for First Place in Warm Up Regatta!

A larger fleet - 30 505s - raced another light air day, with three races, The
breeze increased enough in the last race for some marginal trapezing, though
the 505s were planing on the tight reaches as well. Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle won
the last two races, to pull into a three way tie at 16 points for first place,
with Nick Trotman/Mike Mills, and Ali Meller/Allan Johnson. Tyler and Scott's
three first place finishes in the six race series broke the tie in their favor,
while Nick and Mike's single first place gave them second, with Ali and Allan
3rd. Saturday leaders Tim Collins/Bill Smith fell to 4th overall, at 19 points.
Defending 505 North American Champions Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin were 5th, at
20 points. Other standout performances were Mike Zani/Peter Alarie with 3 DNS
Saturday, and 1, 3, 2 on Sunday, while Jeff Miller/Bruce Heckman had 2 DNS on
Saturday, followed by finishes of 5, 7, 2, 7.

More 505 teams were arriving during the day, with three teams from Vancouver,
two from Edmonton, and ten from the US East Coast. A fleet in the high thirties
is expected for the North American Championship; racing starts on Tuesday.

A number of competitors helped long time 505 crew John Fry celebrate his 44th
birthday this evening. Since Monday is measurement and a speed clinic, no one
is worried about partying too hard...

July 7th - Measurement and Speed Clinic- Report

All 5o5s racing in the North American Championship completed measurement and
registration today. All new sails were measured (sails already measured simply
have to show earlier measurement stamps), and boats weighed. Several teams were
adding lead to bring their boats up to weight. The Mike Zani/Peter Alarie team
were quite pleased to discover that 7318, their recently rebuilt 17 year old
Lindsay, was underweight by enough to allow them to finish painting the boat
(the hull is primer grey right now). Johan Backsin's Rondar was also quite
underweight, and needed an additional 12 pounds of lead to bring it up to
weight. The majority of boats had measurement certificates and weighed in
properly.

Measurement was followed by a "speed clinic", where several of the top crews
and then top skippers talked about how they sail their 505s on different legs
and different wind conditions. Then, standing around a rigged 505, went over
how the rigs were set up for different conditions, looking at a 505 using
Ullman sails, and one using North sails. This took much of the afternoon, but
was very informative.

It appears that there will be 36 teams racing in the North American
Championship. The first race starts at 1:30PM on July 8th.

July 8th Report

7:45AM. As with every other morning, the "marine layer" rolled in from the
ocean during the evening and night, so from our vantage point on the ridge (we
are staying with Bruce and Hallie Tilley), we cannot see much of Los Angeles or
the water. We expect the marine layer to burn off before race starting time.
Most competitors would like a little more breeze than we saw during the warm up
event.

Midnight.... Another sunny day in Long Beach. Lighter air for the first race,
but the breeze built up to trapezing and planing during the second. Nick
Trotman/Mike Mills of Rhode Island had a great day, with a 1st and a 3rd, to
lead the 505 NA championship after two races.

In the first race, early gaters were able to tack and cross later starters to
lead the race. The fleet was quite close at the windward mark, though in the
non planing conditions it was hard to pass boats. Despite the early left shift
favouring the early gaters, the trend was right for both races, with the RC
shifting the weather mark further right for almost every beat. Courses are
unique, being a 505 worlds course minus the last beat... we finish at the end
of the second reach of the second triangle.

The second race started in about the same breeze as the first. Long time 505
team Jeff Miller/Bruce Heckman gated late, ducking the gate launch just as it
started to drift. With the boats to windward all having to bear off to round
the gate launch, Miller and Heckman were able to tack immediately and head
right. They crossed behind the rabbit on the layline, overstood slightly, but
were able to foot over the rabbit on the layline to take the lead. Most of the
other leaders were early gaters who fought there way across early to get right.

The breeze started to build for the final beat, the first solid trapezing and
planing upwind since we arrived in Long Beach. Miller/Heckman were comfortably
in front, and with the wind shifting right, and most teams going hard right,
positions did not change much.

The locals are suggesting that we are back in a typical Long Beach weather
pattern that should see more breeze for the next few days...

July 9th Report

Another beautiful day in Long Beach. Despite predictions of more wind than on
the 8th, we had similar conditions, though less breeze than the maximum seen on
the 8th. The first race was lighter, with the breeze building towards the end,
but the breeze did not pick up more for the second, never reaching 15 knots.
This left lots of crews crouching on the rail in the lulls. The chop and swells
were larger today, and particularly noticed on port tack, which was more
directly into the chop. Most teams wanted to go right up the beats, but some
were able to find shifts that made the middle or the left pay as well. It was
very challenging sailing conditions in a very talented fleet.

The Rhode Island team of Nick Trotman and Mike Mills won race 3, working their
way into the lead part way through the race, by making effective use of shifts
up one of the beats. They were 11th in similar conditions in the 4th race. The
Long Beach team of Howard Hamlin and Mike Martin were 3rd in race 3, and won
race 4, pulling them into 3rd overall.

Another Rhode Island team, Mike Zani and Peter Alarie, were 2nd and 3rd today,
which was good enough to put them in the lead overall, counting all four races.
There finishes of 4, 2, 2, 3, give them 19.7 points (bonus scoring), 3 points
ahead of Trotman/Mills, and 4 points ahead of Hamlin/Martin. Both the 2nd and
3rd place teams will gain when a drop race is factored in, as their worst race
is worse than the Zani/Alarie team's worst race. Jeff Miller/Bruce Heckman and
Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle are close behind, with 26.4 points and 33 points
respectively.

Every day, the race winners and the team that exceeds their handicap
(calculated using a very complex formula) by the greatest amount, are asked how
they sailed the race. In addition to the Trotman/Mills and Hamlin/Martin teams,
Ellen Ablow/Alan Norman (who were 8th in race 3) and Bryan Largay/Matt Sanders
(who were 7th in race 4) answered questions from other competitors after being
given their daily prizes. Largay/Sanders were the rabbit, and went hard right
every beat, staying in the top three until they broke an end fitting on their
spinnaker pole, and were forced to sail some reaching legs without a spinnaker.
They were able to use the pole on the last reach to the finish by tying it to
the mast fitting using the croakies of a pair of sunglasses...

Thursday morning much of the fleet is going surfing before racing..

July 10th Report

Much of the fleet woke up early today for the surfing trip. While some
competitors are long time surfers - Howard Hamlin excels at it - most had not
tried it before. A wonderful two hours were spent at the beach, followed by
breakfast at Nick's in Seal Beach.

Conditions were very slightly windier than the earlier days of racing, with
some planing upwind, as the breeze got up to 13-14 knots.

In the first race, there was a significant shift to the right, favouring late
gaters. Defending NA champions Howard Hamlin and Mike Martin were behind the
rabbit and a couple of other late gaters early on, but pulled through for the
win. Nick Trotman/Mike Mills passed Hamlin/Martin down the run, but lost them
on the final two reaches, to finish 2nd. Long time 505 sailors Jeff
Miller/Bruce Heckman were 3rd, while the rabbit - Thad Lieb/Rob Waterman - were
4th.

Despite the obvious shift to the right on the first beat, the expected right
shift did not occur on the first beat of the second race. Early gaters found a
shift to get back across and lead at the weather mark. Mike Zani/Peter Alarie
and Henry Amthor/John Fry led at the first mark. Zani/Alarie went on to win,
with Miller/Heckman second and Trotman/Mills 3rd. Amthor/Fry hung on to finish
4th, with Hamlin/Martin 5th.

The debriefing after the race was interesting, with race winners and the teams
(Amthor/Fry and Lovshin/Lovshin) who beat their handicap by the greatest amount
explaining how they raced the race, and why.

This leaves Trotman/Mills leading the North America Championship after drop
with 14.4 points, with Alarie/Zani second at 9.7 points, Miller/Heckman 3rd
with 23.4 points, Hamlin/Martin 4th at 23.7 points and Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle
5th with 53 points. With only two races left, it should be an interesting
battle for the 505 NA championship.

July 11th Report

Zani/Alarie win NAs!

Mike Zani and Peter Alarie of Rhode Island were 2nd in the final race of the
1997 SeaLand North American Championship, giving them first place in the
series. Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin were 2nd overall, while Nick Trotman and Mike
Mills were 3rd overall.

The first race - another marginal trapezing with large chop event - saw an
early gater, Tim Collins/Bill Smith cross over on port already ahead of later
gaters. They led at every mark, though Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin closed to
within a couple of boatlengths several times during the race. The Hamlin/Martin
team were 2nd, with Zani/Alarie 3rd, Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle 4th, inches in
front of Nick Trotman/Mike Mills in 5th. This left the standings very close,
with Nick Trotman/Mike Mills leading Mike Zani/Peter Alarie by 1 point (bonus
scoring), and Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin another 1.3 points further back, and
Jeff Miller/Bruce Heckman a further 8.4 points back. Under bonus point scoring,
this was extremely close, with any of the top three teams able to win with a
first place, and Miller/Heckman able to catch them all if they faltered, and
fell out of the top finishes.

With the expected Long Beach sea breeze and right shift not in evidence -
conditions were atypical all week - teams had to decide if the right shifts
were simply oscillations, or the start of a progressive shift right. The beat
started square, with neither early nor late gaters looking favored.
Hamlin/Martin drove hard left, while Zani/Alarie bailed out slightly to the
right, tacking back into a lane in the middle, just below Jeff Miller/Bruce
Heckman. Some small puffs caused localized starboard tack lifts, and one of
these was perfectly placed to lift Heckman/Miller and Zani/Alarie over the
boats on their lee bow, without lifting the bulk of the fleet that was to the
right of them. At the windward mark, Miller/Heckman were first, with
Zani/Alarie second. Hamlin/Martin came in fast from the left and were very
close behind, with Trotman/Mills rounding outside the top five.

Hamlin/Martin fought to get by Zani/Alarie for the entire race, but could not
pull it off. Miller/Heckman had the ideal vantage point for the race long duel,
as they were ahead and pulling away. Trotman/Mills fought their way into the
top five, rounding the final windward mark 5th after passing several boats on
the run and final beat. However, with just the two reaches to the finish, the
results were almost secured, barring a bad gybe... Miller/Heckman won easily,
with Zani/Alarie crossing second and clinching the 1997 SeaLand 505 North
American Championship, with 28.4 points. Hamlin/Martin's 3rd place in the race,
gave them 32.4 points and second overall, while Nick Trotman/Mike Mills had to
count both their 5ths on the last day (they had an 11th as a drop race), giving
them 34.4 points and 3rd place. Miller/Heckman's first place in the race made
it close, as they ended up with 35.1 points and 4th overall. Further back with
69 points and 5th place was the Tyler Moore/Scott Ikle team, well ahead of Ali
Meller/Allan Johnson at 93.8 points and 6th place. A 1,8 in the final two races
pulled Tim Collins/Bill Smith up into 7th, with 97 points, just ahead of Robin
Brown/Rich Mundell in 8th, with 97.7 points. Nick Adamson (US Olympic Laser
representative in Savannah) and Bruce Tilley were 9th, with 107.7 points, while
Dan Thompson/Uli Coblenz were 10th, with 117 points.

Final Report

Mike Zani/Peter Alarie of Rhode Island win the 1997 SeaLand 505 North American
Championship.

Well, after five days and eight races, it is over. Thirty five teams fought
hard in some very close and tough racing, and Mike Zani/Peter Alarie of Rhode
Island came from behind by defeating both Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin and Nick
Trotman/Mike Mills in the last race to win by a very narrow margin. Despite
races ending on a close spinnaker reach, teams were often finishing within
inches of each other, after battling around an eight leg course (the old
Olympic course with an additional two reaches). Zani/Alarie won in their 17
year old recently rebuilt and rerigged Lindsay 505, 7318. Howard Hamlin and
Mike Martin raced Mike's 12 year old Waterat, 7771, to 2nd, while Nick
Trotman/Mike Mills raced their one year old Rondar to 3rd. Zani/Alarie's boat
is a forward tack bag boat, while Hamlin/Martin and Trotman/Mills have
conventional launcher boats. Most teams used Ullman/Danger or North sails on
Proctor D masts.

Peter Alarie has won the 505 NAs twice before, in 1993 and 1994, crewing for
Macy Nelson. It was the first win for Mike Zani.

Probably the best looking 505 in the event was Tom Cook's INCREDIBLE 505. 3246
is a Moore 505, built in 1970 for Paul Tara. It raced the 1971 World
Championship in Santa Cruz. Paul would not recognize the boat now. Tom
extensively rebuilt and re-rigged the boat. Though heavy, the boat seemed
competitive, and Tom and driver Andy Wisner sailed away from much newer boats.

The 35 team fleet was a combination of younger rockstars (three recent
Olympians, several Olympic trialists, a college sailor of the year, numerous
all-americans) who have gotten into the 5o5 class in the past few years, other
recent converts from other classes, a number of older, long time 505 sailors,
and several teams that had people who had been out of 505s for 10, 15, or 20
years, but were getting back into the 505 class. There were two female drivers,
and there was also a female crew in the warmup regatta (they could not take the
time off for the NAs). Some of the competitors were top 505 sailors twenty
years ago, while Kirk Wilson and Ted Nordquist arrived in a late model used
Rondar 505 they had purchased the week before the North American Championships
(Ted was 3rd in the 1964 US Olympic Finn trials). A Laser and Melges 24 sailor
came out to watch the 505 NAs for a day, and was so taken with the 505 and the
fleet, he came back to shore, learned that one of the boats - Bill Beardslee's
recently refinished 18 year old Lindsay - was for sale, and bought it on the
spot.

Tim Collins, a long time 470 racer, past 470 North American Champion, and US
Olympic trialist, described the regatta as the most fun regatta he had ever
been to.

The wind never exceeded 15 knots, as the classic Long Beach weather pattern was
probably disturbed by a storm near Baja. Several days saw short steep chop that
made sailing the boats very challenging. Though the fleet tended to go right in
expectation of the classic southern California right side shift, the left
worked very well (perhaps about half the time....).

Gate starts were used for all North American Chamionship races as well as the
warm up regatta. There was one general recall in 14 races, caused by the
pathfinder being ten seconds late at the starting pin.

As expected in a 505 regatta, there were no protests. I expect this was
appreciated as much by the jury as by the competitors.

Every day after racing, the race winners and the team that had beaten their
"handicap" by the greatest amount were debriefed by the competitors; this was
greatly appreciated by the rest of the fleet, as they were able to ask
questions like, "why did you go left on the first beat?", and "How did you set
up the rig for the conditions?".

Event organizers Mike Martin and Howard Hamlin did an outstanding job with this
NA championship, which was enjoyed by all. Ten East Coast 505s were shipped to
Long Beach and back; this was the largest cross continent contingent in some
years. In addition to the ten East Coast 505s, there were teams from Vancouver,
Edmonton, Texas, and individuals from Arizona, Idaho,and Colorado, besides a
strong California contingent. SeaLand was the major sponsor; their support is
very much appreciated. Mocean, West Marine, Team McLube, Ronstan and Ullman
Sails were also event sponsors, and very much helped make this event as
successful as it was.


