International 5o5 Euro Cup Leg 2, Riva Del Garda. Final Wrap - International 5O5 Sailing
https://www.int505.org/blog/2025/06/04/international-5o5-euro-cup-leg-2-garda-wrap/

Euro Cup

Between May 29th and 31st, 41 505’s from 10 countries arrived in the
small town of Riva at the Northern end of Lake Garda in Italy for leg
2 of the 2025 505 Euro Cup series. Lake Garda, for those unfamiliar, is
one of sailings great venues, stunning scenery, fresh water and great
breezes making the sailing amazing, while ashore there are equally good
restaurants and bars along with accommodation for every budget. As seems
to be always the case at 505 events these days, plenty of teams arrived
early to practice and enjoy the ambience of Riva, so by the time race
1 came around, everyone was ready.

Racing at the Northern end of Garda in the ‘Era’ wind presents
opportunity and obstacles for sailors. Speak to most people who have
raced there and you will hear “hit the cliffs!” This is true, to a point
and judging where and when is key. On day one it was clear that some
teams understood this better than others. Jan-Phillip Hofmann and Felix
Brockerhoff from Germany, fresh from their win in round 1, made it look
easy, scoring 3,1,1 for the day to take the lead. Back in the class
after a long break, Paul Brotherton, sailing with James Fawcett from
Great Britain posted an impressive 4,2,3 to lie in second and Ian
Pinnell and Charles Dwyer also from Great Britain were in third with
a 1,14, 2. The races were sailed at the lighter end of the Garda wind
range, but still fun sailing.

For Day 2 the wind had increased a little, around 12-16 for the most
part, but with some dangerous holes and spicier puffs. Proving that
their form on day 1 was no fluke, JP and Felix took complete control of
the event with a 2,1,1 scoreline. They were chased hard by French team
of Philippe Boîte and Marin Carnot with 1,2,15 score. Elsewhere everyone
was having good races and not so good.. Leaving the event wide open,
with the exception of the top spot. In second place was the USA team of
Howie Hamlin and Jeff Nelson, Paul and James had dropped one place but
were still in 3rd. It would take some major drama for JP and Felix to
lose their grip on the event.

With the sun shining brightly on Day 3 the Ora built in quickly and
a classic Garda day was in store. By the start the wind was in the high
teens with some gusts into the 20’s. All the golden rules for Garda were
in place. Get a good start and get to the right as fast as you can! JP
and Felix were first to the top mark, but by the bottom mark Mike Holt
and Rob Woelfel from the USA had got past to take a lead that they
extended to the finish. JP and Felix though had no trouble holding on to
2nd to take the event for the 2nd year in a row with a race to spare
this time. Taking 3rd in this race was the Canadian team of Bob Tenant
and Steve Bourdow. With the other podium contenders having a poor race
7 the 2nd through 8th places had become very unpredictable and was going
to go down to the last race. This time, with 2nd on the line, Howie and
Jeff took the lead at the top of the first beat, a lead that they held
until the bottom of the run when Mike and Rob squeezed past to take
their 2nd win of the day, moving them up to 3rd overall. Howie and Jeff
crossed in 2nd that put them in the runners up spot overall. Philippe
and Marin finished the race in 3rd, to place them 4th for the event,
Paul and James rounding out the top 5.

Another great 505 Riva Cup and Round 2 of the Euro Cup was done and
dusted and JP and Felix worthy winners and have a clear lead in the Euro
Cup series. Round 3 is in Warnemunde in Germany, July 5-7.


Mike Holt
