http://www.int505.org/usa/events/200105ECCRES.htm

East Coast Championship
Hampton Yacht Club
Hampton VA
May 26 - 28, 2001

Brief notes from Jesse Falsone:

Congratulations go out to Tyler Moore and Peter Alarie for their convincing win
at the competitive 26-boat 505 ECCs. The new 7-leg course
(start,W,L,W,R,R,W,L,finish) was a smashing success at the ECCs. Having the run
before the reaches kept the boats very close throughout the race and lead
changes were common. It was clear to me that concentrating on keeping clear air
was initially more important that heading at the mark. Finding a lane downwind
was pretty tough with lots of boats piled up on each other. The 2001 Worlds
will utilize this course for part of the regatta. I urge organizing authorities
to give this course a try and report the results.

From Lin McCarthy:

New 505 EAST COAST CHAMPION: Tyler Moore, of Hampton, Virginia, and his crew,
well known Peter Alarie from Rhode Island, ran away with the 505 East Coast
Championship this past weekend. In three days of racing Moore and Alarie
amassed a string of 7 finishes of 1-1-1-2-1-2 and a 4 that served as their
single "throwout". Regatta organizer and local favorite Henry Amthor and his
brother Douglas Amthor finished 7th in the fleet of 27 topnotch 505 competitors
from as far away as Canada and Florida. The current National Champion of
Canada, Tim Collins, finished 2nd. Two other southern Bay sailors, Fred Sage
and Steve Sparkman, shared crew responsibilities with Ali Meller and finished
8th overall.

Also from Lyn McCarthy:

One design 505'ers race hard on the course, but stick together off it. Saturday
evening, after a sudden thunderstorm slammed the fleet during the afternoon,
all seven disabled boats were repaired, thanks to a group effort that
culminated in Henry and Barb Amthor's garage at mid-night. Now, that's what
true competition is all about.

From Murphy the Racing Beagle:

MURPHY'S LAW: I have found the boat I am going to when I "downsize". It's a 505
hotrod. Takes only the skipper and one crew dog to race the boat, and...here's
the best part, they do a thing called rabbit starts. Just the sound of it makes
my juices flow! Living to race, racing to live. /s/ Murphy the Racing Beagle

From Dustin Romey:

For those of you who haven't heard about last weekend's ECC's, we had a fun
regatta and a great time, but a bit of a disaster on Saturday. A storm passed
through the fleet during the second race. We can all debate how much wind there
was, but suffice it to say if was f__ing windy. Nearly half the fleet either
broke or bent their mast during what we generally agreed was the wildest ride
any of us have ever had on a 505 (everyone should raise a glass to the
Canadians who were crazy enought to put up their chute).

Thanks to everyone's willingness to help each other out and Henry Amthor
playing host to a rigging party at his house, the entire fleet was on the water
with a spare, begged, borrowed or spliced mast on Sunday.

