1997 Europa Cup
Leg 2
Riva del Garda, Italy
8-11 May 1997

Six British teams drove the 1000 miles to Riva for the second event of the 1997
Europa Cup series. They joined 39 Germans, 15 Swiss, 3 Swedes and a lone
Belgian making a fleet of 64 Boats. Those brits who made the effort to go a few
days early were greeted with two days of heavy rain, it was claimed the first
since January. The boys retired to a bar and spent the time drinking and
playing cards - definitely worth the drive !.

The sun put in its first appearance on Wednesday, which enable a few to get
some practice in. The first was held on Thursday in a southerly force three
breeze which due to a few clouds didn’t get going to its normal strength. The
race was a Swiss benefit being won by De Cerjat/Hollinger from Betschen/Jacot
with Bart/Senn third. Terry Scutcher and Simon Lake were the leading British
finishing 11th after having lost a very close fight with a pack of lightweight
Swiss and Germans, 100 yards ahead would have given them 6th.

Friday dawned clear and Boats started launching at about 10:30 am in about 5
knots of wind to escape the carnage on the very crowed ramp. By 11:15 am it was
blowing 15 knots and by the start at 12:00 it was blowing 25 knots. The
conditions allowed the British to perform a little better, although
Betschen/Jacot won from Paul Lovsey/Andy Williams and Nilsson/Barne (SWE)
third, Vernon Ralston/Paul Young were 5th and David Smithwhite/Rob Sutherland
were 8th.

After a wait of about one and a half hours in 25 knots, Race 3 was started,
Scutcher/Lake got the right line into the cliffs and lead for a while up the
first beat but went in once to often and rounded third. Betschen/Jacot won
again, this time from Nilsson/Barne with Scutcher/Lake third after having a
close race with Smithwhite/Sutherland who were 4th.

Saturday dawned fairly cloudy and the wind didn’t get going. The race officer
tried a couple of starts but had to abort both. The fleet was then towed in as
a thunder storm was expected and the race officer posted an 8:00 am start for
race 4.

The depleted fleet set sail at 7:00 am in a 15 knot northerly breeze, expecting
the first start at 8:00, unfortunately the first start happened at an Italian
8:00 am - around 8:30. After one recall the fleet set off in a breeze that was
beginning to die. The pin end starters were favoured Nilsson/Barne started
closest to the pin with Scutcher/Lake second and Betschen/Jacot were about 5th
from the pin. By the windward mark Nilsson/Barne led from Betschen/Jacot with
Scutcher/Lake third, positions which were held to the finish.

The wind dropped completely by the end of the race and a hour or so was whiled
away waiting for the southerly breeze to start. It kicked in at 20 knots,
Lovesey/Williams got a great start and looked good all the way to the windward
mark rounding second, after Nilsson/Barne, Scutcher/Lake rounded third. In the
confusion at the windward mark with a motorboat Betschen/Jacot and Boehm/Roos
(GER) slipped through both the British boats. Postions then held to the finish
with Nilsson/Barne 1st, Betschen/Jacot 2nd, Boehm/Roos 3rd, Lovesey/Williams
4th and Scutcher/Lake 5th.
