Santa Cruz YC Spring Open (Dinghy)
April 10-11, Santa Cruz Yacht Club
Strangers in a Strange Land
by Alexander Meller
Photos by Rod Hagebols
Results
Updated 21 April, 2004

Dinghy Park Photos by Alexander Meller

As part of our preparations for the 2004 505 World Championship Jesse
Falsone and I skipped the first 505 regatta of the season at our home
club, Severn Sailing Association in Annapolis, to race in the first
Santa Cruz Yacht Club 505 event of the season. We had a blast. It turns
out that the left coast does things a little differently...


Thirty Two 505 Turnout!

With everyone talking about the upcoming Santa Cruz 505 World
Championship and lots of people looking for used 505s, we expected
a good turnout at the first Santa Cruz regatta of the season -- one of
four two-day events scheduled at SCYC as a build up to the world
championship -- but we were amazed at the the 32 505 team turnout. It
seems like nearly EVERYONE is out racing 505s and doing a worlds
campaign. Team Tuesday was there, and Pegasus Racing -- rumored to be up
to NINE 505s with more on the way -- turned up with their core team
along with stringers Holger Jess and Stefan Koechlin flown in from
Germany, and Brett Van Munster flown flown in from Australia. Shark Kahn
was unable to make it, but Philippe Kahn was racing with Andy Escourt.
The Pacific Northwest had a contingent there, as did the San Diego
fleet.

While lots of us take the competition in the 505 fleet for granted, for
those readers who are not familiar with it, here are some highlights off
the top of my head on who was racing.

- Holger Jess - the 2001 and 2003 505 World Champion crew, and the
 person most responsible for building the German 505 class to 300
 members.
- Carol and Carl Buchan - This team was 2nd in the 2002 505 NAs,
 recently won a Tasar Worlds, and raced 49ers together for awhile. They
 also won the 505 North Americans in 1985. I'm sure they have won lots
 more major events together. Then there is Carl's Olympic Gold Medal in
 the Flying Dutchman class, and he has won at least two US Laser
 Nationals, over twenty years apart.
- Howard Hamlin - 1999 505 World Champion (with Mike Martin), two-time Aussie 18 World Champion, lost-count-how-many-times 505 NA champion, and so on.
- Mike Martin - 1999 505 World Champion (with Howard Hamlin). Second at
 2000 505 World Championship and first at 2000 505 NAs driving (with
 Steve Bourdow crewing), past Laser North American Champion, 2nd at
 I-14 Worlds, and so on.
- Nick Adamson - US Laser representative at the 1996 Olympic Games, top
 V15 sailor
- Bruce Edwards/Dave Shelton - multi-time top three finishers at 505
 worlds, FD and 49er Olympic campaigners; Dave also did Finn campaigns.
 Local heroes.
- Peter Alarie - multi-time 505 NAs winner, multi-time US East Coast
 Championship winner, top V15 and A-cat racer
- Jeff Miller - past 505 North American Champion
- Philippe Kahn - Pegasus Racing has won the Transpac and Melges 24
 Worlds (and probably more), and has campaigned Finn, Star, Mumm 30 and
 Farr 40 very seriously. They appear to have a full time core team of
 sailing pros and a very impressive list of sailing rockstars involved.
- Jesse and I flew in and sailed my Rondar, 8776, which has been living
 at the Shelton residence since December (thanks, Dave!) Peter Alarie
 flew in to crew for Howard Hamlin.

A number of teams arrived early to practice on Friday. The morning fog
started to burn off though it never fully cleared. The breeze built up
to 10-14 knots during the afternoon. Jesse and I were the first team out
-- our coach, Rod Hagebols, was determined to put us through our paces
-- as the breeze started to fill in, but we were quickly joined by other
teams. Though not everyone was out at the same time, probably 12 or more
teams made it out Friday afternoon. Several windward-leewards were run,
with four or five teams nearly equal upwind, and Hamlin/Alarie looking
strong downwind. Though this was light air by Santa Cruz standards, it
was terrific sailing in long ocean swells, and despite everyone saying
the water is cold, it was warmer than the water in the Chesapeake Bay.

We were able to hang out at the club for awhile saying hi to all our
friends, but ended up at the Taqueria at Seabright and East Cliff for
dinner.

Saturday

Still on East Coast time, Jesse and I were up early, and at the club to
go over the boat by 8:00AM. The skipper's meeting was not until 11:00,
so we had plenty of time to work on the boat. The day was overcast,
foggy, cool and damp, with no noticeable wind. From what I understand
this is fairly typical of early morning weather in Santa Cruz, and the
lack of breeze in the early morning is not a reason to panic.

Jesse attended the skipper's meeting and returned with a hand-written
photocopied-and-stapled SI. The only instruction that stuck in my mind
was the last one, "No Whining!" The SI turned out to be just the first
hint of the culture shock Jesse -- a "structured" East Coast Republican
-- was in for. I had raced this event two years ago, so was somewhat
familiar with Guerilla Race Management's (aka Wahle's World) approach to
505 regattas. And the rest of the fleet is so familiar with it, they
don't need the SI or the skipper's meeting.

Race 1

Though most of the fog had cleared, the day was still gray overcast,
cool and damp. The breeze might have been up to 6 knots or so.

In standard left-coast practice, the pin was set to the starboard
(right) side of the RC signal boat. A LINE you gasp? Yes, apparently due
to a shortage of appropriate rigid bottomed inflatables, and perhaps the
presence of the small V15 fleet, we used line starts rather than gate
starts. And it was not a very long line. The weak current was going up
the course and helped jam the line.

The first start attempt was postponed before the starting signal when it
became apparent that the left (RC boat) end was heavily favored. Good
call, Dave! This was quickly fixed, and the actual start was very soon
after on a jammed, pin-favored line.

Most of the fleet banged over to the right, though we had at most six
knots of breeze and I thought the right only works well when the breeze
is on. We had a mediocre start near the pin jammed between boats on both
sides, but kept going to the left on the longer starboard tack as boat
after boat tacked away to go right. We kept going in dirty air until
everyone except Bruce Edwards/Dave Shelton had tacked away. Why did
everyone like the right so much? Left was the closer tack to the mark,
and isn't the SC sea breeze supposed to fill in outside (left) before
inside (right)? I don't know SC, but we were following the guys who
wrote the articles on the local conditions. Besides every time Jesse
looked the right was in no pressure and bow down on us. I wanted to
consolidate while we could, while Jesse wanted to keep going left and
pointed out that the Bruce and Dave were going ALL THE WAY TO THE
CORNER! Jesse's view won on a tie breaker, and we finally tacked after
Bruce/Dave, on their hip, on the port tack layline. By this time even
I could see we were in more pressure -- enough for marginal trapezing --
and we crossed the leading right-side teams on the starboard layline
easily. Given the pressure on the left most teams did bear away sets. We
followed the local heroes down the run.

While most of the fleet was well behind, a few boats make it round the
windward mark not far behind us. Several of the teams behind tried to go
high on the run, but they were far enough behind us to not seriously
threaten our air. We trailed Bruce/Dave to the leeward mark and then set
up a little to the left of them as we both headed back up the left side
on starboard. We had good speed and they seemed to be in point mode
while we were not, so we gained leverage and a little ground. Then we
started to get knocks as we sailed into more pressure, and pulled ahead.
We eventually tacked on one of the knocks to get across Bruce and Dave,
but they tacked as well, and then both teams were knocked on port and
the pressure dropped as we sailed right, allowing Bruce/Dave to gain
back some of the ground they had lost to us. Both teams tried to work
this, tacking when they were knocked, and not getting too far from the
best pressure. Every time we tried to go right we were knocked and
Bruce/Dave lifted on starboard and we would be give up hard-earned
distance to get over them. We led at the windward mark by a few lengths,
in a big rightie, and gybe set. Bruce/Dave followed suit. We pulled
away a bit on the run, and then sailed conservatively up the short beat
to the finish to take the win. Bruce/Dave were second. Mike Martin/Jeff
Nelson had emerged from the chasing pack part way down the first run and
finished third, well clear of the rest of the fleet. Douglas Hagan/Stuart
Park were fourth and Howard Hamlin/Peter Alarie fifth.

Race 2

The pin (right) was favored. The momentary 7-8 knots we had seen at the
first windward mark in race 1 was long gone, and we were back to sitting
in the boat in perhaps 5 knots of breeze. There was at least one general
recall and then Dave Wahle went to the black flag. The fleet was jammed
on most of the line at the start. We later learned that there were good
holes available, but we had not been able to find them. We were deep
after the start, but struggled towards some pressure we could see on the
right, tacking back and forth on shifts or to keep clear air. Jesse had
us in phase, and we passed boats on each cross, emerging on the right
side, at or above the starboard layline, close behind Nick Adamson/Alan
Norman and race leaders Stefan Koechlin/Paul Allen. Nick/Alan were going
faster than us close reaching to the mark and opened up on us a bit.
Boats just a few boat-lengths to leeward were in less pressure and
though we were overstood, being in the pressure counted for way more and
Stefan/Paul, Nick/Alan and us rounded in that order. With the pressure
coming for the right and lifting us on starboard, we all gybe set. We
were able to sail high enough to roll over Nick/Alan. Stefan/Paul were
able to sail a little lower though we all had to sail well above the
rhumb line in the light pressure. We gybed last of the three, and
misjudged the layline, going too far, and had to tight reach to the
leeward mark. We almost lost Nick/Alan, and only just got inside at the
mark as they gybed outside the two boat-length circle and in turning the
boat, allowed us an overlap.

Though these three teams had a nice lead on the chasing pack, we wanted
to avoid sailing through them coming downwind. We ended up the furthest
left of the leaders, tacking quickly after the mark. Stefan/Paul went
with us, in a loose cover, while Nick/Alan went further right before
tacking. Astern of us we could see a large pack struggling around the
leeward mark. I was very glad to be out of that jam up! We thought we
were gaining on Stefan/Paul but ran out of race track as Dave Wahle
mercifully shortened at the start/finish gate. Stefan/Paul won; we were
second, while Nick/Alan gave up a lot of distance by going further right
than us, but held on to 3rd. Howard/Peter were fourth and Bill/Brad in
6992 fifth.

Race 3

It was still gray, overcast, and cool, and there was damn little breeze.
As per the skipper's meeting, Wahle went with the black flag for the
first start. He had announced that once he had to use the black flag, he
would continue to use it.

After mediocre starts in the first two races, we tried really hard to
get a hole on the line. We partly succeeded, starting a little closer to
the middle of the line, away from the favored starboard (pin) end, but
were not up to speed at the gun, and struggled to find lanes. We were
not in great shape at the windward mark, while the leaders had escaped
some distance ahead. Mike Martin/Jeff Nelson were leading at the weather
mark. The wind was dropping and we had a slow run down. Some teams gybe
set, but we followed Howard Hamlin/Peter Alarie to the right (left when
looking upwind), looking for some -- any -- pressure. It was tough
going, as despite the lack of pressure the kite had to be eased and
sheeted as the boat moved over swells.

There was a large jam-up at the leeward mark. Trying to avoid an earlier
jam up on the approach, we had gybed to starboard and then gybed back to
port on the outside, but this merely put everyone and his dog inside of
us at the mark. While trying to work our way through and give room to
those entitled to it (and unfortunately to at least one team that just
stuck it in there without having room), we noticed one team outside of
us gently rocking their way through. Great, whatever happened to rule
42? I may have broken the "No Whining!" Sailing Instruction when
I yelled at them that they were cheating, and yelled to no one in
particular my frustration at drifting around the leeward mark in very
little wind, about four boats away from the mark. I was later told that
this same rocking team had been seen paddling backwards with their hands
on the start line to avoid being early... Jeez. What do I have to do,
protest?

Being just about the most outside boat at the leeward mark rounding,
Jesse had us try to escape to the right. We ate dirt most of the way to
the corner, and tacked after everyone else going right had tacked, on
what turned out to be the layline for the pin. With a little bit of
clear air on the right, and little bit more pressure, we passed several
teams on the short beat to the finish, just beating a clump, and
crossing about 12th. We later learned that some teams that crossed ahead
of us were scored BFD (Black Flag), and that we were scored 8th. Mike
Holt/Carl Smit passed Martin/Nelson on the run and took the win with
Martin/Nelson second. Carol and Carl Buchan were third, David
Chatham/Matt McQueen fourth, and Bill/Brad in 6992 fifth.

Everyone’s tolerance for light air racing had been reached, and we were
ready to call it a day. We hoisted the kite to go home, but our coach
immediately arrived in his powerboat and offered us a tow. YES!
I replied. About 45 seconds later we were under tow at what seemed like
warp 9! As we screamed by the early finishers slowly sailing in, it
occurred to us that we were being jerks not offering anyone else a tow.
But it would have been impossible to attract Rod’s attention and get him
to slow down so we could grab towlines, and besides having been on the
other end of this treatment often enough, we tried to enjoy being first
in. Can you believe it?

Party Time

It was still gray, overcast, cool and damp, but after putting the boats
to bed we enjoyed a party at the Simpkin's -- Bob Simpkin is the lead
organizer for the 2004 Worlds, and the Simpkins live next door to SCYC
-- and celebrated Nick Adamson's 35th birthday. Then it was off to the
Taqueria for another awesome Bay Shrimp burrito and a flan. I have no
idea whey I felt compelled to eat all that AFTER eating at the party...

Sunday

The next morning Jesse and I turned up early -- still on East Coast time
-- determined to do the job even without our coach (we only had Rod for
Friday and Saturday). It was still gray, overcast, cool and damp. After
yet more boat work, we were in line ready to launch when we got the word
that Dave Wahle was postponing. There was more wind in the harbor than
in the course area. A series of on-shore postponements ended at 13:00,
when racing was called off for the day. Most of the fleet had very mixed
up scores, so our 1,2,8 looked very strong and gave us first over Carol
and Carl Buchan by about seven points. The Buchans may have been the
most consistent team in the fleet. I think Hamlin/Alarie were third but
I did see any results while in Santa Cruz, so I am not sure.

Conclusion

Jesse and I decided to fly out for some of the West Coast events this
year, so we could have some practice in Santa Cruz conditions before the
worlds. We were hoping for conditions similar to what we expect for the
worlds (18-30 knots in big ocean swells and waves). The outcome we
obtained -- winning the regatta over a very strong thirty-two boat fleet
in three light air races -- left me laughing at ourselves. It was even
funnier when I returned home and learned that Saturday had been sunny
with decent breeze in Annapolis. But despite not getting the perfect
conditions we were hoping for, the regatta was a lot of fun, and winning
it was WAY COOL. It was great to see many of the friends I only see once
a year or so.

Aaron Ross was kind enough to have us stay at his place -- walking
distance from SCYC. Jesse and I will be back in May, but not for the
Santa Cruz regatta -- we had booked flights before we learned that the
event had been moved -- but for a practice weekend. I SURE HOPE IT
BLOWS. Our next Santa Cruz regatta is in early June.

I have loved Santa Cruz since I first visited it in 1987 or '88. Though
property values are rising quickly, driving up costs, it still has a lot
of the quirkiness that first appealed to me.

Santa Cruz is one of my all-time favorite places to sail. Even in less
wind than we hoped for it was fun to be out on the Pacific Ocean in
those swells. There are several more 505 events at SCYC this season,
leading up to the pre-worlds/NAs and worlds in August. You really ought
to be there.

Ali
