Santa Cruz regatta May 15th16th
by Mike Holt

It would appear Mike and Jeff are still unavailable for comment....[Ed.
The event winners are supposed to write the regatta report]

Seventeen boats turned up for the weekend of 15-16 of May to race for
once in fairly typical conditions for Santa Cruz, yes, finally the
Breeze was BACK! Six races were sailed with the needle at or past 20
knots for at least 4 of them, although race 4, the first on Sunday
started in next to nothing finished in good breeze.

So to the racing, Race 1 got away in 20 knots, Carl and Mike rounded
ahead of the pack only to gibe too early for the leeward mark passing
the lead to Jeff and Mike, with the wind backing off a little Carl and
Mike picked up a couple of shifts (yes sometimes right doesn't pay....)
to round with a good lead. Not learning (even a monkey would) from
gibing too early the first time they again go too soon and this time
Dave and Bruce get the line right to move from the middle to the front
to take the win from Carl and Mike with a dead heat for 3rd between
Peter and Howie and Jeff and Mike.

Race 2 started cleanly after PRO Dave Whale brought out a weathered
black flag (unusually he did not put it back up again!) and Dave and
Bruce proved their win in race 2 wasn't a fluke by taking a 2nd win.
This time Jeff and Mike kept their bow separated from Peter and Howie
finishing in that order.

Race 3 saw the wind back up a bit and Jeff and Mike came across from the
left (yes the left!) to lead at the first mark. A lead they held all the
way around. Hot on their heels all the way were Peter and Howie and Carl
and Mike.

Sunday and Race 4 started with little breeze and Whales playing on the
course, Jeff and Ryan got the first beat right sailing out into the
increasing breeze out to see and lead round the first mark. As the
breeze built getting the lanes right on the run was imperative and Peter
and Howie excelled to pull through and win Jeff and Ryan held on to 2nd
and Jon and Andy 3rd.

By race 5 the wind was in 'full effect' Carl and Mike lead at the first
turn and kept the mast in the upright position to win. Jeff and Mike
pulled off a 2nd despite an impressive crash on the 2nd run and Peter
and Howie followed them through in 3rd.

By race 6 and an invitation only race or so it seemed and 7 boats left
to fight it out. I am sure this race lasted less than 15 minute, with
one lap and the breeze set at maximum. Jeff and Mike made no mistakes to
lead across the line, pursued but not caught by Carl and Mike and then
Peter and Howie.

A great weekend of racing with 4 boats winning races and everyone having
their moment, a real taste of why everyone wants to sail in Santa Cruz.
Hopefully everyone will be in town for the 'next' Santa Cruz regatta,
the 'Summer Open' on June 5th and 6th.


