2004 Pacific Coast Championship

Thanks to everyone for traveling and making the PCCs a great event. We
had a total of 39 boats attending. Also, thanks to Sue Athman for the
T-shirt designs, Dave Wahle our PRO, all the race committee volunteers,
and West Marine for making the event possible.

Conditions were great, especially due to the fact that Santa Cruz had
been fogged in for 10 days with light to no wind. It was looking bad on
Saturday AM and then the fog parted and the wind filled in. Conditions
on both days were for the most part in the 10 to 18 knot range with some
larger puffs and later in the day the standard light air at the leeward
marks.

A ton of new faces and old ones turned out with several brand new boats
debuting at the regatta. Some really interesting new rigging ideas
appeared on many boats not the least was some really nicely built
fittings and new ideas on the Team Pegasus boats and on Trevor Baylis's
and Morgan Larsons new Waterat.

As always the racing was great and tight with many boats being very
competitive as the fleet gears up for the NAs and Worlds, now less than
1 month away in August.

Race 1 was won by Mike Martin and Jeff Nelson by displaying great speed
and excellent tactical sailing . They sailed very well and held off
Danny/Andy and Mike/Carl for nice victory. Several boats capsized on the
gybes mixing up the scores a bit. Good stuff.....

Race 2 was again a tight battle with Mike Holt and Carl Smit stretching
out on the second weather leg and then nailing the gybe line on the last
downwind leg and winning by the weekends biggest gap over the fleet.

Race 3 started in a patchy westerly with some big holes and shifts. Carl
& Carol Buchan, Andy Beeckman/Ben Benjamin and Bruce Edwards/Dave
Shelton worked up the middle right and stayed out in front the entire
race. The wind went very light at the last leeward mark and Bruce and
Dave made it out to the breeze first and took the race.

Saturday night was BBQ night at the Santa Cruz YC, with most
participants hanging out and talking tech.

Race 4 was a battle the whole race. On the last downwind leg Morgan
Larson and Trevor Baylis stayed outside a bit longer on the last leg,
nailed a sweet angle to the finish line and went from 5th at the gybe to
1st at the finish, just beating out Danny/Andy and Howie/Pete.

Race 5 started to have some more of the "holey" spots with strong breeze
on the left. It was a balance of playing the shifts and velocity. The
Mike's had a good battle with Holt/Carl Smit taking the gun, later drop
out, giving Martin/Nelson the victory.

The great news is that there are many boats with great speed and the
whole fleet has really escalated in ability. Its looking good for
a North American to win the worlds!! Thanks again to all for attending,
we are looking forward to seeing you at the worlds.
