Luke And John Ingalls Are 505 East Coast Champs
DATE: NOVEMBER 4, 2020

https://hamptonyc.com/luke-and-john-ingalls-are505-east-coast-champs/

The father and son team from Sakonnet Yacht Club in Rhode Island took
home the 2020 East Coast Championship trophy after three days of
exciting and close racing at Hampton Yacht Club. Friday offered up winds
in excess of 25 knots with some gusts in race three over 30! Saturday
and Sunday morning (before the front) offered up manageable but windy
conditions as well for a total of nine races to complete the regatta.

Racing was tight, going into the final race Ingalls held a one point
lead over HYC team Clark Hayes and Eric Schwab, Henry Amthor and Chris
Pfrang had a close battle with Dave Kirkpatrick and Parker Colantuano
from Sail Newport. In the end Henry and Chris ended up fourth, Dave and
Parker third, Clark and Eric took second, and the father son pair of
John and Luke Ingalls took first.

Whitney Hayes and Anna Patterson from HYC took home the trophy for the
highest finishing All-Women’s Team and Benton Amthor and Marcus Adams
took home the highest finishing
U-25 Team.

A huge thank you to PRO Mark Wheeler with Kathy Wheeler on the RC
boat, Tom and Debbie Ryan for running the windward mark boat and John
Periera for riding with Maxwell Plarr in the Gate Launch.

Luke currently is attending the University of Rhode Island, John is
the head sailing coach at Salve Regina in Newport.


-------------------


2020 505 ECCs @ Hampton YC
By Dave Kirkpatrick November 3, 2020
https://usa505.org/2020-505-eccs-hampton-yc/

A bit of a new thing for regatta reports is to get them from the winner’s
perspective. We’ll go with that for a while and see how it goes,, and probably
switch it around some. This one come’s from a driver’s perspective, but we’ll
want to hear from the guys who really know what’s going on too. If you know
Luke and John, you’ll appreciate that Luke usually has a few more things to
say, which made this easy. Enjoy.

This weekend’s 505 east coast championship in Hampton, VA was a blast of a
regatta, offering all sorts of sailing conditions and great competition for
those lucky enough to be involved. Tyler Moore told a really nice story in
memory of Geoff Ewenson Friday morning at the skippers meeting, and the class
flag flown for the event was an “EWE” flag, in honor of Geoff. He was clearly a
great presence in the class for many years and his loss will be felt by many
for a long time.


The first day of racing was a blustery one. Checking the sail flow wind meters
and reports before I left the dock, I knew we were in for some high-octane
racing. We left the dock raked nearly all the way back and proceeded to rake
even further back shortly after leaving the dock. With the boat fully depowered
and geared up to go fast it was just a matter of being ready to ease the main
and put the bow down fast enough when the roaring 28+kt puffs came blasting
through. The downwinds were exhilarating and treacherous, as most, if not all
boats spent at least some time upside down during the day. Racing was tight
throughout the day and in nearly survival conditions, it paid to be able to get
to the shifts on the upwind, but what paid even more was staying upright all
the way around the course.

Day two was expected to be the light air day of racing, and the forecast tended
to be somewhat accurate. The day was spent searching for puffs as the
differential between the lulls and puffs could be extreme. Crews agility was
put to the test as they went back and forth between full out trapping and
coming almost all the way into the boat if you happened to find yourself in a
severely light spot. The key to the day was to be able to hold your spot off
the gate and stay in phase on your way to the windward mark. As far as going
downwind, both crews’ and skippers’ judgement and agility were tested as puffs
coming down the course made for wire running conditions and quick, smooth
transitions back to dead downwind mode were required after these prized fingers
of breeze passed. The tough conditions made for four incredible races.

One of the more profound midnight marine repairs The third day had a
potentially bleak outlook with a questionable forecast, but with good judgement
by the race committee we were able to get in two more great races. The breeze
started in full power conditions, but quickly increased in strength and shifted
right during the first race. The first boats to make their adjustments and get
the boat in the groove were at a clear advantage early, able to punch through
the chop that was getting larger by the minute. Speed was the name of the game
and the margins were tight all the way around the course, with boats battling
their way up and downwind, trading overlaps and leads. The day finished in
balmy 15+ kt conditions, with everyone speeding around the course in ideal
conditions for the 505. Overall, the 2020 505 East Coast Championship was a
beautifully organized event that got sailors (somewhat) together for some
really good competition in Hampton in some really difficult times.
