Day 1 Race 1: A New Religion
Dear all:

If one was free to start a new religion, 505 sailors here would be very
tempted to start with "There is but one God, and he is John Westell"

(For those of you not already indoctrinated into 505 lore, John Westell
designed the 505)

Today was an incredible day for racing 505s. Another warm sunny day in
Fremantle, warm clear water with amazing shades of blue as the depth
changes and the bottom shifts from sand to vegetation. We sailed on the
more distant of the two race areas, which is to the south, near "Fish
Rocks". After a long delay, the Fremantle Doctor arrived, the breeze
built quickly, the course was set, and we were in sequence.

"The breeze was a steady 20-22 knots", according to International 505
Class Secretary, Chris Thorne, who is serving on the Race Committee and
was on the main RC boat. Competitors are near certain there were puffs
higher than that, perhaps the mid 20s.

I really cannot say what the action was at the front of the fleet, we
were not really in it for most of the race, so here is our story...

Pip and I gated early, to windward of Chris and Darren Nicholson. Simon
Payne/Bill Masterman and another boat were to windward of us and didn't
have room to clear the gate launch. Simon/Bill were holed in the bow
(they landed ON TOP of the engine on the gate launch) and forced to
retire. Andy Beeckman/Ben Benjamin and Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin were
a few boats further to windward. We had a very good gate and were able
to stay off the Nicholsons, holding our lane, as other teams fell back.
Early on we were looking quite good, but Andy/Ben were going very fast
and eventually rolled over the top of us, so we fell back. A little
later Howard/Mike were getting close to our air, so we tacked to port.
I think the right paid on the first beat, I'm not sure where we rounded.
We were fully depowered; with all depower strings pulled all the way,
the main twisted open and the board up quite a bit. It was great fun,
and I think we were going very well, though our height was not great.

We jibe set for the run, hoisted the kite, and proceeded to fly over the
Fremantle chop as the long luff spinnaker pulled us over the wave crests
and down the face. JUST AWESOME!!!! The thing is, the 505 is such an
incredible boat to be sailing or racing in these conditions. I have
raced all kinds of dinghies and keelboats over the past 30 years and
nothing comes close to this. Even with the long luff spinnakers, the
steep chop and the 20-22 knots, the power is there, but it is
controllable, at least if you have the boat setup near right. After
a wild ride to the corner, we jibed to starboard and headed back to the
rhumb line. We ended up a little high of the leeward mark, in part due
to the wind dying off slightly near the leeward mark, and went for
a jibe-douse maneuver without putting the pole out again. As you might
guess, we put the spinnaker guy under the bow, so Pip had to fish it
out, we rounded low of two other boats, and footed out (going as high as
we could but still low of other boats) heading right. I'm not sure how
long the legs were but it took a LOOONG time to get up the beats,
despite the fact that we were all planing upwind fast. I think we did OK
on this beat, though we did miss a shift early and may have lost some on
that, and were probably too twisted in the main and too low for part of
it.

We two-sailed high early in the first reach and then set, only to find
that we actually had a little trouble getting down to the jibe mark as
the breeze seemed a little lighter again. So it appears that the ten
degree broader reaches are enough to carry the long luff spinnaker, even
when we have 22 knots. The second reach was very fast, and up the next
beat we worked more left and think we passed some boats. We jibe set
again for the run and had another wild ride (this is SOOOOO MUCH FUN!),
picked the perfect time to jibe and planed fast to the leeward mark. One
beat to go, and we hang tough, pass a couple of boats and get across the
line. WOW! I sure am glad it was only one race today! Whose idea was it
to have some two race days at the worlds, anyway?

Want to know what actually happened in the race? I understand Dave
Smithwhite/Neal Fulcher (GBR) won the race. Danny Thompson/Andy Zinn
(USA-Team Tuesday) were second despite pulling the mainsheet swivel
jammer off the boat at the first leeward mark. Danny briefly sheeted the
main from the boom, and then remembered that Andy also races skiffs and
handed him the mainsheet. Terry Scutcher/Christian Diebitsch in GBR 8787
was 3rd, Krister Bergstrom/Thomas Moss (SWE) were 4th and Howard
Hamlin/Mike Martin (USA-Team Tuesday) 5th.

I'm going to end this report now, as it is 5:30 still warm and sunny
outside, and I think I need to go for a swim in the Indian Ocean. What
a venue!

Alexander "Ali" Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

-----------------------

Day 2 Races 2 and 3: Someone Call The Doctor!

Another warm sunny day in Fremantle. It blew overnight, and the morning
offshore breeze was very well established and quite strong. The
Fremantle Doctor never did fill in and both of today's races were sailed
in a shifty, puffy easterly. The wind range was probably something like
6 or 7 knots to 20 knots, and the shifts were probably 30 degrees. With
the offshore breeze, the waves/chop were not as large as yesterday,
though the race course was a considerable distance downwind of the
shore, so we still had a noticeable chop. It was another fabulous day to
be racing 505s.

Race 2:
The left looked good early, but it all depended on who was in the puff
and sailing the lifted tack, so a number of teams had their moments up
the first beat. There were LOTS of place changes up the first beat, and
then down the run; it was very easy to lose a bunch of boats as they
went down the run wire running in a puff while you sat in a hole calling
for "Hughie" (apparently Australians encourage a puff by yelling C'mon
Hughie!"). There were more place changes down the beat, and even the
reaches were a good opportunity to pass or be passed, as some teams
would go high looking for a puff and then come screaming down in one.

At the finish it was Ian Barker/Dan Cripps 1st, Simon Payne/Bill
Masterman 2nd, Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin 3rd, Krister Bergstrom/Thomas
Moss 4th and probably Danny Thompson/Andy Zinn 5th. Second through
fourth were within five meters at the downwind finish.

Race 3:

Today was a scheduled two race day, so after the stragglers had
finished, we had another go. The first gate start attempt ended quickly
when the pathfinder tacked to avoid several teams trying to gate early
(the offenders may have gotten away with it as the race officer in the
gate launch tried to inform the RC who the offenders were, but
apparently there was so much background noise over the radio that he was
not heard). The start was recalled, which happens quite rarely in gate
starts. The next attempt also had some issues as the pathfinder had to
take evasive action (the offending team was DSQ'd) and may be filing for
redress. Pip and I had already gated and did not see the incident, but
it seems to me that if the pathfinder feels they deserve redress, anyone
who gated after the incident might choose to file for redress, too.
There are people rapidly filling out forms as I write this report. We'll
have to see what the jury decides on these.

Once again it was a shifty, puffy race, with place changes all around
the course. The difference in speed between a 505 wire running in a puff
and a 505 forced to go low in a lull is substantial; finding and staying
in the puffs makes for HUGE gains.

Ian Barker/Dan Cripps gated early, punched out on the boats near them
and then tacked to cross. Since Pip and I were below them in the gate
and kept going for awhile, we were able to seem them cross at least the
first 10 or 20 starboard tackers who had gated after them. We had a good
start and worked the left, but even though it was shifting back and
forth, the trend was going right, so we were looking terrible. 1992 and
1993 505 World Champions Chris and Darren Nicholson led at the windward
mark. We ended up nearly on the port tack lay line early, and then in
a "Hail Mary" back and puff we pulled through to round 6th and then
noticed that we were ahead of Barker/Cripps, Hamlin/Martin and number of
the favored teams. Thompson/Zinn apparently caught Nicholsons at one
point, but Nicholsons (AUS) led for most of the race and were in the
lead when it counted, at the downwind finish. Barker/Cripps (GBR) pulled
through from a first mark rounding in the teens to finish second
(apparently Barker/Cripps were forced to capsize the boat at one point
during the race to fix something and still manged to pull through to
second!). Andy Beeckman/Ben Benjamin (USA-Team Tuesday) were third,
Thompson/Zinn (USA-Team Tuesday) were 4th, Hugh Stodart/Peter Holden
(AUS) were 5th, Malcolm Higgins/Andrew Chisholm (AUS) 6th and
Bergstrom/Moss (SWE) 7th. After fighting a battle for much of the race
with 505 Class Vice President Tom Bojland -- racing with Philip
Christrani -- we lost them on the third beat. Though we were quite close
at the last windward mark, they finished 12th, Peter Chappell/Ian
Davidson crossed 13th, and Pip and I were 14th, about one boat length
behind Chappel, our best finish so far.

It was a long day. It is now almost dark and we are about to have the
daily prize presentations. I need a quick shower and a shirt! No time
for a swim today.

Gotta go....

Ali Meller

-----------------------

Day 3: Early Morning Report, Jury Decision Posted
Dear all:
This morning, like most other mornings, I woke up around 5:00 or 5:30AM
as the "anti Doctor", the night-and-early-morning offshore breeze, was
roaring through the trees and buildings... Having had two races
yesterday, I went back to sleep for awhile.

It is 11:00AM as I write this.. only one race today with a warning
signal at 13:00, so the frantic rigging and launching has not started
yet. The jury did not come to a decision last night on the requests for
redress from the gate start incident in race 3, but they are
deliberating now.

LATE UPDATE, the jury decision is up, and the race stands, without
anyone getting redress. The decision carefully explains why, but it is
nearly a full page of writing, so I will not try to reproduce it here.
The essence is that the jury had no way of giving redress that was fair
to everyone. If you are interested, check the ISAF rules for what a jury
or protest committee is required to consider when considering requests
for redress.

Top ten after three races:

Pos	Country/Bow No	Boat No/Name	Skipper/Crew	Total Nett	Race 1 Race 2 Race 3
1	GBR 107	8743 - Bodge It and Scarper	Ian Barker/Daniel Cripps	10 10	7( 7) 1( 1) 2( 2)
2	USA 83	8762 - Nice Wood	Dan Thompson/Andrew Zinn	13 13	2( 2) 7( 7) 4( 4)
3	SWE 64	8655 - Mind Com	Krister Bergstrom/Thomas Moss	15 15	4( 4) 4( 4) 7( 7)
4	USA 84	8714 - Black Boat	Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin	16 16	5( 5) 3( 3) 8( 8)
5	AUS 75	8804 - Jigsaw	Chris Nicholson/Darren Nicholson	17 17	11( 11) 5( 5) 1( 1)
6	USA 8	7771 - Gummi de Milo	Andrew Beeckman/Ben Benjamin	25 25	8( 8) 14( 14) 3( 3)
7	AUS 12	8784 - Express Post	Hugh Stodart/Peter Holden	25 25	12( 12) 8( 8) 5( 5)
8	AUS 33	8809 - Scalpel	Leslie Nathanson/Richard Machin	31 31	14( 14) 6( 6) 11( 11)
9	AUS 30	8796 - Fangin Hoons	Malcolm Higgins/Andrew Chisholm	33 33	18( 18) 9( 9) 6( 6)
10	GBR 72	8774 - Boys on Tour	Ian Pinnell/Steve Hunt	35 35	9( 9) 11( 11) 15( 15)

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

Day 3, Race 4

Only one race was scheduled for today, but we nearly sailed two. After
a postponement, we went with a gate start in very light air. A number of
teams were trying to gate early and several of these were caught
a little high as the pathfinder started its run. Pip and I were still
going backwards as the pathfinder sailed by and were rolled by a number
of boats that squeezed through. It turns out we did rather better than
some, as something like six teams were DSQ'd for hitting the gate launch
or the pathfinder. Incredibly the teams DSQ'd include:

1st race winners Dave Smithwhite/Neal Fulcher
Event leaders after three races, Ian Barker/Dan Cripps
1999 World Champions Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin

several other teams were also DSQ'd.

This race was in a mostly easterly breeze, with wind ranging from near
zero to 16 knots, and puffs filling in from one side and nearly
inverting the fleet. On the third beat, after the two reaching legs, the
easterly died out, leaving most of the fleet barely moving, and the
Fremantle Doctor breeze filled in from the opposite direction. At this
point the Race Committee abandoned the race, and moved into position for
another start, setting the course for the new wind direction. Since it
was late in the afternoon for The Doctor, it did not fill in all that
strongly, perhaps to 14 knots, though there were some higher puffs.
Again there were a number of teams trying to gate early. The fleet went
off planing fast upwind. The leaders all chose to do bear-away sets at
the windward mark, while a few teams that rounded well back jibed at the
offset mark and hoisted spinnakers on port. The jib set group had good
breeze right to the corner, and when they jibed back to starboard to lay
the leeward mark, received the strongest puff of the day. Large gains
were made by these teams, Pip and I may have passed 30 boats and rounded
the leeward mark 10th. The breeze backed as the leaders started down the
first reach, with a number of teams forced to douse their kites to make
the mark. The shift was large enough that not jibing at the jibe mark
and continuing on starboard wire-running was the better move to get down
the second reach, which had now turned into a run. There were lots of
place changes on these two legs. After a fast beat upwind the leaders
split down the run to the finish, and then converged on the narrow
finish line.

Andy Beeckman/Ben Benjamin (USA-Team Tuesday) won the race. Krister
Bergstrom Thomas Moss would have crossed second, but capsized on the
last jibe before the finish and fell to 4th. What with Bergstrom/Moss
swimming Simon Payne/Bill Masterman dueled with Tim Collins/Drew Buttner
for second, with Collins/Buttner (USA) taking 2nd and Payne/Masterman
(GBR) 3rd. Bergstrom/Moss (SWE) were 4th, Les Nathanson/Richard Machin
(AUS) 5th, Luke Molloy/Lucas Prescott (AUS) 6th, Henry Amthor/Steve
Sparkman (USA) 7th, Brett Van Munster/Andrew Petch (AUS) 8th, Doug
Hagan/Stuart Park (USA) 9th, Ian Pinnell/Steve Hunt (GBR) 10th.

I'm not sure where this puts the overall results. Danny Thompson/Andy
Zinn were in the teens at the last windard mark but put their kite under
the bow on the hoist and dropped some places. If we start figuring in
a throwout, Barker/Cripps throw out there DSQ and count ten points
overall. Bergstrom/Moss drop a 7th and would have 12 points. Andy
Beeckman/Ben Benjamin would throw out a 14th and would have 12 points.
Thompson/Zinn would throw out today's race and would be at 13.

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

-----------------------

Day 4: No Racing Today, Where's the Doctor?
Racing in the Grolsch 505 World Championship was postponed until
tomorrow due to lack of wind. Where is the Fremantle Doctor?  Presumably
two races will be scheduled tomorrow to try and partly make up for the
two scheduled races we were supposed to have today.

Time to hit the beach?

AGM:
The Annual General Meeting was held at 9:30 this morning. International
Secretary Chris Thorne will be preparing and distributing the minutes of
this meeting. Meeting highlights include:

Rule Changes:
The members present voted in favour of the proposal to remove the ban on
carbon in spars. This proposal includes restrictions on rotating masts,
wing masts, and large diameter thin tube sections. It also would allow
carbon booms and spinnaker poles, and loose footed mainsails. Further,
the proposal requires a minimum weight and minimum center of gravity for
the mast, for a three year transition period. The weight and centre of
gravity values were determined by weighing a number of different masts
in the dinghy park.

A rule change clarifying that the low structure running across the boat
near the back of the centreboard case was a thwart and increasing the
maximum widths of all thwarts, while preventing double bottoms was
passed.

These two rule change proposals will now go to postal ballot of the boat
owning membership.

Worlds:
Santa Cruz was confirmed as the host of the 2004 Worlds
Germany was selected as the host of the 2005 Worlds

The formal meeting was adjourned as we had to rig and go sailing to make
the start of the two scheduled races. Once we were postponed onshore, we
started the Open Forum meeing and had a very spirited discussion. Notes
will be posted soon.

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Association

-----------------------

Day 5: A Looooong Day at the Office
It is 19:15 as I start writing this report. It has been a very long day.
We launched before noon for a 13:00 start and two races.

Race 5
The first attempt at Race 5 was abandoned on the second reach after
a large backing shift on the second beat, and then a reset jibe mark
that was still not far enough to the left created a first reach that was
a two sail leg just three or four degrees below close hauled, as the
wind continued to shift and a second reach where no one jibed at the
jibe mark.

There were lots of clouds, the wind shifted around to the left, but it
was not a Fremantle Doctor breeze.

Race 5 was restarted around 15:30. Early gaters were looking good early
in the first beat as the breeze went left, but then the big shift was to
the right, and Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin, who apparently missed the gate
and ducked everyone while going right, went through the gate when they
could, tacked back to the right, and had a significant lead at the
weather mark. Thoralf Greger/Angela Stenger were second at the weather
mark. Hamlin/Martin (USA-Team Tuesday) went on to win. Danny
Thompson/Andy Zinn (USA-Team Tuesday) rounded the first windward mark in
the mid teens, set the kite and jibed early catching the boats that went
to the right (looking downwind), rounded the second weather mark fifth
and were able to pull through to finish second. Tom Swift/Holger Jess
(GER) were 3rd, Krister Bergstrom/Thomas Moss (SWE) passed seven boats
on the last beat to pull into 4th for the race. Michael Navarro/Simon
Wilder (AUS) were 5th, and Greger/Stenger 6th.

Race 6
This race ended after 16:00, but the race officer was determined to get
a second race in so as not to be two races behind on the schedule.
A tired fleet prepared for another gate start in a dying breeze, with
a sloppy chop. The Race Committee set a rather shorter course. Though
the breeze again went right on the first beat, the early gaters on the
left seemed to be in a little more pressure and several of the early
gaters came out of the left in very good shape. Early gaters Chris and
Darren Nicholson (AUS) came out of the left and led the race start to
finish. Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin (USA-Team Tuesday) rounded the first
mark fourth, but were able to pull through to second by the finish. Pip
and I rounded about sixth, after surviving a jam up just in front of us
in the gate start and heading left, a little above Nicholson's line.
Thompson/Zinn (USA-Team Tuesday) rounded just behind Pip and I in about
sixth or seventh, as we tacked to starboard underneath them, rolled us
on the way to the offset mark, and then pulled through to finish 3rd,
nearly catching Hamlin/Martin who went high on the run to hold off
Andrew Hewson/Frank Karlovecz and nearly lost Thompson/Zinn in the
process. Hamlin/Martin crossed Thompson/Zinn by two feet just before the
finish. Hewson/Karlovecz were 4th, Bergstrom/Moss rounded the first mark
behind Meller/Pearson and Thompson/Zinn and pulled through to 5th at the
finish. Simon Payne/Bill Masterman (GBR) were 5th, Andy Beeckman/Ben
Benjmain (USA-Team Tuesday) were 6th. Pip and I were 10th and get to be
the pathfinder for Race 7. We're hoping it it will be
a right-side-favoured first beat.

Ian Barker/Dan Cripps did not get into the top five in either race, and
this has reshuffled the overall standings, with Thompson/Zinn leading
overall with 18 points (after drop), Hamlin/Martin second with 19
points, and Bergstrom/Moss third with 21 points. Beeckman/Benjamin are
fourth with 33 points and Barker/Cripps fifth with 36 points.
Payne/Masterman are sixth with 40 points.

As per the change to schedule posted by the PRO, there are two races
scheduled for tomorrow. After eight race, there will be two throwouts.


Nearly 20:00. I'm exhausted and need to get something to eat and some
sleep...

Alexander "Ali" Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

-----------------------

Day 6: Nicholsons's Are Back!

The Fremantle Doctor is still missing; we are still hoping he turns up
tomorrow for the last race. It was another long day, though not as long
as yesterday, with everyone off the water by about 6:00PM.

We are still waiting for results for race 8 to be posted, by talking
with the top teams, we have the following provisional results.

Chris and Darren Nicholson, 1992 and 1993 International 505 World
Champions -- before Chris moved into Grand Prix 18s winning two titles,
and then 49ers where he won three consecutive 49er World Championships
-- won both races today, while yesterday's leaders faltered. Dan
Thompson/Andy Zinn finishing 14 and 10, Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin
getting 3 and 8 and Bergstrom/Moss posting 7 and 5. Barker/Cripps also
did not have a stellar day, though they were 9th in the first race.
Other stars of the day were Sydneysiders Michael Quirk/Geoff Lange were
2nd and 3rd today, which should pull them up in the standings from their
mid twenties standing overall after race 6.

Both races were in light to medium conditions with the breeze building
to 9 or 10 knots half way through the second race allowing the 505 to
plane to windward. It was also possible to wire run in the stronger
puffs.

With two drops after eight races, the Nicholsons (AUS) are in
a controlling position with 20 points. Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin
(USA-Team Tuesday) are second with 22 points. Krister Bergstrom/Thomas
Moss (SWE) are third with 26 points, Dan Thompson/Andy Zinn (USA-Team
Tuesday) have 28 points good for fourth overall, while Ian Barker/Daniel
Cripps (GBR) are fifth with 31 points.

Andy Beeckman/Ben Benjamin who were in 4th place after race 6, had
finishes of 29, 13 today putting them at 46 points overall, outside the
top five.

Things are rather more complicated when one considers what the drops
are. Hamlin/Martin have DSQ, 8 as drops. Barker/Cripps have DSQ, 19 as
drops, while Nicholsons have DNF, 41 for drops. In contrast
Bergstrom/Moss have two sevenths as drops, while Thompson/Zinn have
22,14 as drops. If any of these teams have bad races tomorrow that they
drop from their scores, the lower score of the two current drops will be
included in their score. So in theory, Nicholsons could have a DSQ or
DNF tomorrow and have to count a 41. Barker/Cripps would be counting
a 19 if they have a worse race tomorrow. Bergstrom/Moss, Hamlin/Martin
and Thompson/Zinn are less vulnerable, as they would be counting a 7, an
8 and a 14 as drops.

Apparently the top four teams are going out for dinner together; we're
all good friends in the 505 class. They all had dinner together last
night too.

"If it is windy tomorrow", said five time 505 World Champion Krister
Bergstrom, "things are going to be interesting."

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

-----------------------

Day 7 Grolsch 505 World Championship: Nicholsons are Three Time World Champions!

Fremantle Western Australia. - The top four teams fought a dramatic
battle today in today's final race (race 9), for the International 505
World Championship. With the Fremantle Doctor still missing in action,
the race was sailed in a 12-14 knot breeze with a large chop.

At the end of the run (second leg), Krister Bersgtrom/Thomas Moss looked
to be in a championship winning position, as they were second, with the
Nicholson brothers at least six places behind, and Howard Hamlin/Mike
Martin just behind the Nicholsons.

Chris and Darren Nicholson worked there way through to second on the
next beat (third leg), passing Bergstrom/Moss in the process, rounding
the next windward mark second behind Tim Collins/Drew Buttner, with
Bergstrom/Moss third. Those positions held until the final beat the
finish, when Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin pulled their way back into the
picture, passing Bergstrom/Moss to finish third. Bergstrom/Moss were
fourth.

The fourth place team, Dan Thompson/Andy Zinn, got up to second place in
the race until Bergstrom/Moss passed them at the leeward mark at the end
of the two reaching legs (end of leg five).

It turns out that these finishes keep the top three in the same
positions they were in going into race 9, confirming Chris and Darren
Nicholson (AUS) as the 2002 International 505 World Champions. Chris and
Darren also won the International 505 World Championship in 1992 and
1993.

Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin (USA-Team Tuesday) finished second overall,
Krister Bergstrom/Thomas Moss (SWE) third, Danny Thompson/Andy Zinn
(USA-Team Tuesday) fourth.

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

Australian Nationals/pre-worlds reports
505s and Sailors Arriving in Fremantle
Dear all,

I arrived in Perth/Fremantle yesterday afternoon. There has not been
a cloud in the sky, its warm and WINDY! I hope we can post some images
soon, including some of the anemometer display. Peak gusts to 40 knots
today according to the anemometer! I saw and photographed 39 knots on
the display.

Freo is great, lots of cafes, restaurants and pubs, many within easy
walk of Fremantle Sailing club. There are six containers here so far (I
believe ten are expected).

I think we are going to have a fantastic worlds in awesome breeze, at
a great venue, organized by a very motivated fleet.

Cheers,

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

Practicing in Fremantle; Race 1 of the Australian Nationals Tomorrow

Monday December 2nd, 2002 -- Fremantle Sailing Club, Fremantle, Western Australia

Today has been slightly different from previous days in that there were
a few small clouds in the sky this morning. The weather system that gave
us very strong winds all yesterday and last night has gone, and it was
a lighter seabreeze today, perhaps 18-22 knots at noon, somewhat
stronger in the late afternoon.

Measurement and registration were going "Great Guns" all day. A number
of teams were out practicing. Pip Pearson and I finally made it out for
a sail. It is a little interesting getting in and out of the harbour as
it is SO shifty and puffy behind the high breakwater. Once out into the
Indian Ocean, the sailing is fabulous... the colour of the water varies
with the depth, and is very reminiscent of Bermuda's Great Sound.

We saw three flying fish -- the first I have ever seen -- pop out of the
water just in front of our bow and glide to windward before diving back
in. WOW!

We planed around for awhile, threw in some tacks, hoists and gybes and
lined up with a couple of Australian boats to check out speed and
height; so far so good.

It seems to me that we have all the pieces necessary to have an
extraordinary 505 World Championship. Fremantle is terrific, the beaches
marvelous, the water warm, very clear and beautiful. The organisers seem
to have thought of just about everything, and it looks like we're going
to have 20 knots or more each afternoon, and it could be quite a bit
higher. We have 107 competitors so far, with an exceptional entry list
including:


Two time 505 world champion Chris Nicholson, racing 505s again with his
brother Darren. Chris has also had a rather good run in some skiff
classes including winning something like 3 49er world championships and
two 18 footer Grand Prix championships.

Past 505 World Champion (he also won a silver medal in the 49ers in
Sydney) Ian Barker, racing with Danny Cripps.

Five time 505 world champion Krister Bergstrom with long time crew
Thomas Moss.

Multi-class world champion (but not 505s as yet) and multi-time 505 UK
National Champion Ian Pinnell, racing again with Steve Hunt.

Simon Payne racing with 1995 505 World Champion Bill "Billy Boy"
Masterman.

Past 505 World Champions Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin, who are also two of
the three man team that won the Australian 18 footer Worlds -- the JJ
Giltinan.

Other strong "Team Tuesday" teams who practice every Tuesday afternoon
with Hamlin/Martin are here too; Andy Beekman/Ben Benjamin (2nd at the
1999 Worlds) and Danny Thompson/Andy Zinn.

We are waiting to see if top Swedish sailor Johan Barne can make it here
in time for the Worlds. He is currently in Auckland with the Swedish
Victory Challenge America's Cup team, which was recently eliminated, but
it is not clear Victory Challenge will release him in time for him to
make here. The rumour is that 2001 World Champion 505 crew Holger Jess
is the alternate crew for skipper Tom Swift if Johan cannot make it.

Well known naval architect, AC boat designer, and 18 footer champion
Iain Murray, crewing for his wife Alex Murray.

This list does not even start to show the depth of the Australian
contingent, with many of the best known names in Australian dinghy
sailing here.

It looks like we have ten countries represented so far (AUS, GBR, ZIM,
USA, GER, FRA, NZL, SWE, DEN, CAN).

We'll have to see how the racing goes, but so far, I'm wondering how
soon the Western Australians would be willing to host another 505 World
Championship.

Alexander "Ali" Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

International sailors meet the Doctor

Matt Hansen, sailing Crimson Autograph, West Australian 505 President,
commented that the wild conditions in 25 knot winds gusting up to 36
knots certainly tested out the skills of the international contingent
from twelve countries.

Nevertheless home town hero, Peter Chappell with Ian Davidson, sailing
in his Fremantle 505, "The Fish" managed to sneak through and win from
Howie Hamlin, of USA, the world 18ft skiff champion with crew Mike
Martin in "Black Boat".. Australians, Luke Molloy and Lucas Prescott, in
"Timaayy!" were third.

The Grolsch International 505 World Championships pre world event, the
Australian Nationals, started with an early introduction to the
Fremantle Doctor, the well renowned Fremantle sea breeze. The winds this
season have been the strongest since America's Cup in 1986 and today was
no exception. This is the first 505 world championships with the boats
carrying the new larger spinnakers and as expected there was action
aplenty. Shore side after the race was a hive of activity repairing
broken gear and checking out for any weak areas.

Confirmed entries of over 100 boats with around half being international
sailors, many of whom have a string of world sailing trophies, ensure
that this will indeed be a memorable regatta and a battle of the giants.


Grolsch International 505 Worlds - Open Australian Championships - Races 2 & 3

Champagne sailing conditions

Racing went well in ideal racing conditions in the 2nd and third races
of the Grolsch Australian 505 Nationals, pre-warm up event for the
Grolsch 505 Worlds..

Howie Hamlin, from USA, world 18 ft skiff champion, led at the top mark
in race two in 15-18 knot southwesterly winds. Howie, and crew Ian
Davidson, increased their lead steadily throughout the race, crossing
the line in first position, 23 seconds ahead of Ian Barker, silver
medallist, and crew Dan Cripps, from Britain, in Bodge It and Scarper.

South Australians Sandy Higgins, defending Australian champion, with
Paul Marsh, in Sleek led the Australian contingent finishing third.

The gate starts are working exceptionally well, with over 100 boats
starting without incident setting the fleet up for a fantastically even
start in champagne starting conditions.

First 5 placings:

1   USA 8714 Black Boat -  Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin
2	GBR 8743 Bodge It and Scarper -  Ian Barket/Dan Cripps
3	AUS 8795 Sleek -  Alexander Higgins/Paul Marsh
4	USA 7771 Gummi de Milo  - Andrew Beekman/Ben Benjamin
5	AUS 8395 TIMAAY!  - Luke Molloy/Lucas Prescott
An even better start in race three

In race three, after an even better start with more than 100 boats on
the water, Peter Chappell in The Fish, with hyper speed, led at the top
mark to finish first over the line. Sandy Higgins was close behind in
2nd place and Howie Hamlin finished third..

Spinnaker reaches with the new larger kites and the solid Fremantle
Doctor had the boats skipping across the waves.

The fleet was so competitive that after a two nautical mile beat, 20
boats converged on the top mark at the same time from different angles
giving the International Jury some after hours work.

Barney Harris and Clayton James from USA, sailing Team Spot, were the
recalcitrant boat and paid the penalty, after coming in on a port tack
at the mark, and tried to make room for themselves among around 15 boats
all on starboard.

First 5 placings:

1	AUS 8801 The Fish – Peter Chappell/Ian Davidson
2	AUS 8795 Sleek – Alexander Higgins/Paul Marsh
3	USA 8714 Black Boat – Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin
4	AUS 8395 TIMAAYY! – Luke Molloy/Lucas Prescott
5	USA 8762 Nice Wood – Dan Thompson/Andrew Zinn
More at www.505.com.au

Grolsch International 505 Worlds - Open Australian Championships – Race
4

Ian Bodged and Scarpered
i
Tricky conditions were the order of the day in race four of the Grolsch
Australian 505 Championships, pre worlds event for the 505 worlds..
Light south westerly winds moved south east “unheard of in Fremantle”,
where the winds normally stay south westerly.

After again a great start, the fleet bombshelled chasing the wind
shifts. Through good luck or good judgement, and the calibre of the
leaders having already shown the way in the previous races the old
cliché once again proved apposite, the more you win the luckier you get.

From the start to the top mark the first 5 boats that took the left hand
side of the course, got there well ahead of the rest of the fleet. The
boats on the right hand side then joined in and there were a lot of port
and starboard calls and several boats took penalties.

At the end of the downwind run the boats again converged on the leeward
mark from different angles, creating some chaotic aggression where more
boats took infringement penalties. .

On the second beat the wind having shifted about 40 degrees, the top
mark was repositioned in line with a true beat

Ian Barker, former 505 world champ and Olympic silver medallist in
49-ers, at Sydney 2000, having scarpered with the wind at the top mark,
led the fleet to the finish. Nevertheless Peter Chappell, got out of
gaol, meticulously picking the shifts, to cross the line not far behind.
Simon Payne, from Britain, racing with former 505 world champion “Billy
Boy” Masterman, in Gus First Blood Part 2, finished third.

The first 5 placings :

1.	GBR 8743 Bodge It and Scarper – Ian Barker/Dan Cripps
2.	AUS 8801 The Fish – Peter Chappell/Ian Davidson
3.	GBR 8773 Gus First Blood Part 2 – Simon Payne/BillMasterman
4.	AUS 8667 Swing Shift – Scott Olsen/Sean Gregory
5.	GER 8775 – Tom Swift/Holger Jess

Flying Fish flies high

After 4 races with the final racing sailed tomorrow, Friday, it will be
determined whether West Australian legend, Peter Chappell, in The Fish,
can take the Australian Championship title. He currently is on 4 points,
just two points ahead of hotshot American, Howie Hamlin racing with Mike
Martin, two of the three man team that won the Australian 18 footer
worlds. Aussies again, Sandy Higgins, defending Australian Champion
, and Luke Molloy, are equal 3rd with 12 points.

There is still quite a way to go and there will be some very competitive
crews aiming to close the gap. The forecast is for some exciting racing
with plenty of action. The Doctor will be there.


Dear all,

I have not seen reports from the event on 505world after the first one.
I'm hoping reports are going to the media distribution list and are
showing up on various sailing web sites such as Yachts and Yachting.
I have asked that the same reports go to 505world, but that does not
appear to be happening yet.

So.....

It is Friday December 6 afternoon, about 18:40 as I write this. We had
two races today after an onshore postponement. After getting only one
race yesterday, the race officer altered the schedule to have three
races today, starting at 9:00AM. The Indian Ocean was glassy smooth when
we arrived at the club at 7:30 or so, and stayed that way through two
postponements. I went for a swim from the beach next door to the club.

The breeze eventually filled in and we had two races in 8-12 knots.
These were races 5 and 6.

Pip and I were in the hunt early in both races, but fell back. So
I cannot provide a tack by tack blow by blow description of the races.
The gate starts are working very well -- they almost always do -- and
the fleet is very close at the first windward and first leeward marks.
Things do tend to spread out a little on the reaches, but the racing was
very close. In race 6, we crossed the finish line (at the end of the
second run) at the same time as about four or five other boats.

Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin won race 6. Macy Nelson/Jesse Falsone, who
were the rabbit, finished second. Conditions allowed wire running at
times, so knowing when to wire run and when to go low were key.

The prize presentation for the Australian Nationals and Worlds are in
another twenty minutes, so this report will have to end here.

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

Aussie Nationals/Pre-Worlds Race 1
Dear all:

I have received some e-mails asking for more information about the first
race of the 505 Australian Nationals/pre-worlds. A report was sent to
the e-mail media list and was posted on the Yachts and Yachting web site
and probably other sailing web sites. However, for those of you wanting
more detail...

The race started at 15:00 as the morning was spent on measurement and
registration. This appears to be the time of day when the Fremantle
Doctor is strongest. There is a difficult sail out of the launching area
down a narrow channel inside a high rock breakwater. The wind is VERY
shifty and puffy in there, and it would be very easy to capsize and
damage the boat. We chose to launch early and avoid being in a crowd
getting down the channel. So we were out over an hour ahead of time,
sailed around, tuned the boat and then hove-to to rest. Since it was the
pre-worlds and Pip and I had not sailed in a while, we were trying to
"take it easy" on ourselves and our gear. It was clearly quite windy
when we first got out of the harbour and I think it became windier while
we waited for the fleet to come out and the race to start. I heard
afterwards that there was 24 knots at the start and it built to 27-28
shortly afterwards with gusts over 30. The wind strengths you may have
heard depend in part on what you are looking at. There is an anemometer
with a digital display in the Fremantle Sailing club dinghy building
where we are that apparently reads high due to wind coming up at it off
the rock breakwater. There are weather buoys/stations that provide
information on the web. One of these is Rottnest (sp?) island, which is
some distance off the coast, and windier than where we race. You can see
the wind graphs if you go to the Western Australian 505 web site and
follow the links http://www.505.com.au/

So I do not know if it was 30 knots or 40 knots or what. It was VERY
windy. The shallow water and sailing inside a couple of islands means
that rather than ocean swells we have a steep chop. Very hard to sail in
and hard on the equipment as you get air coming over a wave and than
slam down back into the water.

Pip Pearson and I thought we were OK at the start, but I noticed
a distinct increase in wind speed part way up the first beat. At that
point we had run out of depower strings (we were racing with Pip's small
centerboard, and would have been in worse shape with a full-sized board)
and it became quite a bit harder for us to sail to windward as we raised
the board to depower and with the main mostly flogging the boat was
developing lee helm. At several points we discussed whether we wished to
continue the race, and before we rounded the windward mark we agreed
that we would take a "checkpoint" before the leeward mark and decide it
we would continue to sail in at that point. This was a good race to have
a tall heavy crew in!

Pip's 505 has a Goldspar mast. Compared to the US Proctor D setup, the
spreaders are longer and swept aft. With lots of rig tension the mast
seemed to be reasonably well supported. I believe we cleated the ram
uphaul before hoisting the kite, something that I would automatically
have done on one of my Proctor D-equipped 505s, but which seems to be
rather less of an issue with the Goldspar (most Aussie's have their rams
lower on the mast, nearly at deck level, so they do not support the mast
as high as the US setup does. From my angle the mast looked OK, but then
we never buried the bow. Going down the run we saw two boats with broken
rigs but did not know how they did it and assumed capsizes. Most teams
did bear-away sets and raced towards the shore on starboard at high
speed. Several of the teams in front of us capsized so we were actually
in pretty good shape in the race, perhaps inside the top 15. We did not
do the classic wire run, but pulled the pole back slightly and sailed
a little lower, maybe not as fast as the full on wire run, but easier.
We were still planing fast the whole time, but might not have passed as
many waves as those who sailed higher. Our low aspect ratio kickup
rudder never stalled, and Pip's rudder head to transom fittings
attachment is VERY strong, so we have not had any rudder problems.

We jibed with the kite up without problem, sailed to the leeward mark
and decided to retire as we had discussed. We sailed in without further
problem, though the sail up the channel inside the breakwater was
probably some of the most difficult sailing I have ever done (outside
was easy by comparison!). Even sailing lower than the
pole-on-the-forestay-go-as-fast-as-you-can group, we were not far off
laying the jibe mark (we were on the run, but the jibe mark was already
in place). Howard and Mike flew their kite on the reaches, so broadening
the reaches ten degrees seems to allow teams to carry the LLS OK, and
the feel of the boat is similar to the old higher reach with the short
luff spinnaker, except you are going faster.

While we sat in the dinghy park a slow but steady stream of boats sailed
in or were towed in. The final count may have been something like 18
masts broken (I have heard several different numbers). I believe the
majority broke on capsizes, but several teams broke masts when the kite
filled after the hoist, and the bow buried. Krister Bergstrom was
watching the race from one of the powerboats as the German container was
still stuck in customs/quarantine, and apparently saw three rigs go when
the kite filled and the bow buried. Tom Bojland reported that the broken
masts were Proctor Ds/Cumulus and Goldspars but no Superspar M2s broke
(I know of one Superspar that was on the water being used by Simon
Payne/Bill Masterman, but none of the Germans were racing as their
container had not been released). I have no idea how many Superspar M2s
were out there, so cannot comment on which masts were holding up better.
I think the more pre-bent rigs are probably better at supporting the
upper mast. While I have not taken photographs or notes, there are all
sorts of upper spreader, upper shroud and spreader extension systems
being used. I do not know if any of those broke, or if all the breakages
were masts with no additional support. There were broken rudders, broken
rudder fittings, rudders coming off and more. A number of boats were
towed in. It occurs to me that the high aspect ratio rudders probably
load up the rudder fittings more than the older blades did.

In the end, something like 21 boats finished the race. Some or most of
them sailed an extra windward/leeward as the leeward finish line (many
had not seen the course flag which was apparently hoisted late) was well
to leeward of the leeward mark and you could not see much in the
conditions. Since they could not see the finish line Howard Hamlin/Mike
Martin, who were leading by this point, turned back upwind looking for
a windward finish and most of the remaining fleet followed. Some teams
ended up crossing the line as they sailed back to the club and noticed
there was a finish line past the leeward mark!

Perhaps the best story of the race is that two local young women got
around the course, sailed the proper course, pinched their way upwind
and did not fly the kite downwind, but did not capsize. I believe the
skipper is 16 or 17 and the crew 19. They finished 6th by not doing the
extra lap!

My view is that it is not so much the wind that was a problem, but the
shallow water and very steep chop made for very challenging conditions.
In deeper water and ocean swells the sailing would have been easier and
I think we would have had far fewer breakdowns and most probably fewer
retirements.

I believe that between backup masts and new masts (the Australians had
some and Ian Pinnell brought some) every team was able to replace the
broken rigs. However Ian told me he only had two Ds and no Cumulus masts
left

I asked the 505world list for opinions on the Long Luff Spinnaker after
using it for a year, shortly before I flew to Fremantle for the
pre-worlds. I received 25-50 e-mails in response, only one of which
expressed some concerns about the LLS, but was neither in favour of it
or opposed to it. All other responses I received were in favour of it.
In discussions here in the dinghy park I believe everyone I have spoken
with is in favour of it, with many being very enthusiastic about it.
While those who attend world championships are not representative of the
club-and-local racers who do not, it is interesting to see how many
people love the LLS, even after such an extreme day or racing with some
many breakdowns.

Today is the measurement and registration day between the re-worlds and
worlds. The German and US East Coast boats that were in containers not
released until after the day of the first race, are being measurement
checked. Competitors are enjoying Fremantle, and getting ready for the
first day or Worlds racing tomorrow.

Cheers,

Alexander Meller
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association

Day 3: Early Morning Report, Jury Decision Posted

-----------------------


2002 Grolsch International 505 World Championship
Updated 13 March 2003
by Alexander Meller
edited by Elizabeth Thompson

The 505 class membership chose to go to Fremantle, Western Australia for
the 2002 World Championship, at the invitation of the Western Australia
505 fleet, expecting the Fremantle Doctor to deliver a great windy
series. While the Fremantle Doctor was a no-show except for the first
race of each of the pre-worlds and worlds series, conditions were still
very good with all worlds races but one in trapezing conditions, and
most in planing upwind and wire-running downwind conditions. However,
only the first race of the world championship – and the first race of
the pre-worlds -- were in over 20 knots. Wind ranged from fairly steady
westerlies, to very shifty and puff easterlies. The shallow water over
much of the racing area meant that the fleet dealt with a short steep
chop rather than long ocean swells. With the Fremantle Doctor
conspicuous by his absence, or weakness, we had major shifts or the wind
dying off and filling in from a new direction, during several races,
which typically resulted in the race being abandoned and restarted. On
one memorable long day we raced nearly three full races, in order to get
two in. There were several gate starts in quite light wind, and the
pathfinder was too late in another, which resulted in some recalls and
second attempts at a gate start.

The sailing area and the adjacent beaches were gorgeous. Fremantle’s
bars, pubs, restaurant and cafes were very well patronized by 505
sailors, and the Fremantle Sailing Club bar did not do badly either. The
new maritime museum, which included an America’s Cup 12 meter and
a locally built, foil-borne Moth, opened while we were in Freo, and
a number of competitors and family and friends were able to visit.
Another popular location to visit was Windrush Boats, builders of the
pre-peg carbon fibre, honeycomb core, Fremantle 505.

This was the first 505 World Championship held with the new long luff
spinnaker which is hoisted higher on the mast. It was the second 505
World Championship with the new World's course that has the first run
before the two reaches and a second run after the triangle. Together,
these changes have made 505 racing more skiff-like, with teams going
down the runs at hot angles with the crew on the wire and the pole on
the forestay, searching for puffs, and gibing on the shifts. However
knowing when to wire run and when to sail low or even dead downwind was
key in conditions that frequently crossed the windspeed and wave
boundary that favoured one over the other.

Despite the apparent emphasis on technology and tuning in the 505 class,
many of the races came down to sailing skills. There were always shifts
and puffs that the best teams were able to leverage, and two of the
races sailed in a shifty puffy easterly, rewarded those heads-up sailors
who played the puffs best upwind and down. Ian Barker/Dan Cripps sailed
brilliantly on that one day to score a 1,2, and they had to capsize the
boat to fix a jammed spinnaker halyard in the race they were second in!

The Australian Nationals/pre-worlds and World Championship fleets were
impressive in numbers and in depth, with 102 teams being scored in the
Australian Nationals/pre-worlds and 98 scored in the World Championship.
Apart from a number of top 505 sailors who -- choosing to not sail other
classes -- are virtually unknown outside of 505s, there were a number of
well-known top competitors including:

Past 505 World Champion, 49er silver medalist, and World Champion in
other classes, Ian Barker, racing with Dan Cripps

Two time 505 World Champion, two time Australian 18 Grand Prix champion,
and three time 49er World Champion, Chris Nicholson, racing with his
brother, who also crewed for the two 505 World Championships
Multiple-time Fireball world champion and world champion in other
classes and multi-time 505 UK National Champion Ian Pinnell, racing
again with Steve Hunt

- Past 505 World Champions Howard Hamlin/Mike Martin, who are also two
  of the three man team that won the Australian 18 footer Worlds -- the
  JJ Giltinan
- Well known naval architect, AC boat designer, and 18 footer champion
  Iain Murray, crewing for his wife Alex Murray
- Multiple class Australian champion, Peter Chappell
- Past Etchells North American Champion, Dan Thompson
- Past Laser II champion, Andy Beeckman
- Past 470 North American Champion Tim Collins
- Pip Pearson, Paul Elvstrom’s crew at the 1966 Australian National,
  pre-worlds and World Championship

The Australian fleet was strong, with a number of top sailors in other
Australian classes such as the Sharpie joining an already strong
Australian contingent.

But this was not just a fleet for rockstars. There were mixed teams,
couples, and an impressive number of good junior sailors, recruited into
505s by the Western Australian 505 fleet. And of course a number of good
competent sailors committed to racing the 505 class for life, even if
they were not going to threaten at a world championships. I believe the
505 is actually an intimidating class for some newcomers, as even in
close-to-last place, people know how to tack and gybe and know what
moves to pull to shut you out at a mark.

Early discussions as to which team might be a favourite typically
resulted in a long list of teams that could win the event or at least
finish in the top five. Indeed three different teams led the World
Championships during the seven day series, four if you include the four
day Australian Nationals/pre-worlds.

The top teams were an interesting contrast in styles, with three members
of the ultra-practiced, ultra-tuned, Long Beach USA “Team Tuesday” group
finishing in the top six, Krister Bergstrom/Thomas Moss of Sweden, who
practice by themselves without a fleet finishing third, and the very
talented – and sailing-every-day-but-not-in-505s – Chris Nicholson
jumping back into a 505 and demonstrating that he had not forgotten how
to race a 505 by winning the event. Another very good and practiced
sailor without recent 505 time was Ian Barker. Barker/Cripps started
with 7,1,2 finishes, but were unable to finish in the top four after
that, falling to fifth overall.

The event came down to the last race, with four teams mathematically
able to win it all, three of them with good chances. The apparent winner
of the event even changed during the final race, as initially five time
505 World Champion Krister Bergstrom and Thomas Moss were in
Championship winning position early in the race, only to see first the
Nicholsons and then Hamlin/Martin pass them, dropping Bergstrom/Moss
back to third overall.

In retrospect Bergstrom agreed that his flat sails and small high aspect
ratio centerboard and rudder had been too optimized for big breeze and
flatter water conditions, leaving him very slightly off-the-pace in the
medium air chop faced by the fleet on most days including the last.
Bergstrom/Moss were the most consistent, perhaps the best at clawing
their way through the fleet after a bad first few legs, and had the
lowest scores counting all races, but were unable to finish in the top
three places in any worlds races.

The Nicholson brothers used a new carbon pre-peg Australian Van Munster
505, but used a mast and foils similar to what other top teams were
using. They were using Australian Philips sails, which were apparently
a little flatter. They also switched sails part way through the series,
perhaps switching to the flatter cut sails. They are a little lighter
than most of the other top teams, but this did not appear to hurt their
upwind speed, despite the heavy chop which is normally thought to favour
heavier taller crews.

The first race of the Australian Nationals/pre-worlds, was started in 24
knots, and quickly built to about 28, with puffs well into the 30s. The
short, steep, high chop and shallow water made for hard racing, and
about 18 masts were broken, either by turtling in the shallow water, or
simply from the rig collapsing as the kite filled with the bow stuck in
a wave. Despite this carnage, competitors were very happy with the
adoption of the long luff spinnaker. Though some in the fleet were
experimenting with upper spreaders and upper shrouds to support the mast
tip, which is now subjected to greater loads, only one of the top ten
teams used any additional mast support. However many of the top teams
had switched from the Proctor D to the Proctor Cumulus over the past few
years.

Once the racing was over and everyone back on shore, the 505s were
quickly packed into twelve forty-foot containers to be shipped home. The
packing was completed before the prize presentation dinner and party,
where most competitors partied with their friends into the early hours
of the next morning.

With only seven months until the next 505 world championship in Malmo
Sweden, many competitors are eager to practice, tweak tuning,
centerboards and sailshapes, applying what they learned in Fremantle, in
the hope and expectation that they will do better at the Malmo Worlds.

The 505 Class Annual General Meeting was held one morning before racing.
Though time constrained, we were able to get through the agenda. Minutes
will be posted shortly, but the highlights are that Tom Bojland of
Denmark was elected the new President, Jean-Baptiste Dupont of France
was elected the new Vice President. The membership present voted in
favour of a proposal to remove the ban on carbon fibre spars. The
proposal prevents rotating masts, wing masts, or large diameter
thin-wall masts. It also has a three year transition during which masts
must meet a minimum weight and minimum center of gravity. This now goes
to postal ballot. The other highlight was the selection of Wannemunde
Germany as the site of the 2005 World Championship. The AGM ended in
a hurry as it was time to rig and launch for racing, but as it turned
out, we were postponed on shore, so were able to run the Open Forum
meeting in the measurement tent, while we were under postponement. The
Open Forum meeting had some very interesting discussion. Notes from the
open forum meeting will be posted shortly, but highlights include:

- An interesting discussion on fleet building, with different examples
  of successful fleet building in Seattle, San Diego, Western Australia
  and Germany discussed.
- A strong interest in fully battened mains, fully battened jibs and
  a higher aspect ratio jib.
- A strong interest in a leeward gate rather than a leeward mark, at
  least at the bottom of the first run.

Organising and running a World Championship is a lot of work. Though the
Western Australia 505 fleet has grown to something like thirty teams,
running this event required many of them, and many members of their
families, to put in up to two weeks of their time so we could race.
There is a long list of people who deserve our thanks for this event.
Unfortunately I do not have names for most of them, so cannot list them
here. I will single out a few though. Members of the Stowell family were
heavily involved in the event, including Mark who was also racing in the
event, and members of the Olsen family seemed to be everywhere as well.
Then Ali Murphy juggled her university work so she could be at the
Fremantle Sailing Club dinghy facility before and after racing each day,
to help us out, and sell us T-shirts, water bottles and the like. There
were volunteers on Race Committee, there were volunteers cooking
sausages after racing each day, and there were volunteers pouring wine
at the pre-worlds prize presentation. Thank you all very much.

The event could not have taken place without the support of a number of
sponsors. The major sponsors were Grolsch and Ronstan (guess which beer
we were drinking after racing), but there were many other local sponsors
that supported the event. Thank you to the sponsors.

Finally, my own 505 racing program was in a shambles and not long before
the event I was seriously considering not going. When past 505 class
president Pip Pearson heard this, he unretired from 505 racing, and
offered to crew for me in his Kyrwood. I could not have raced this event
without Pip’s generous offer. Pip, please don’t retire from 505 racing
again.

Alexander "Ali" Meller
Driver, AUS 8499 Blue Slip
President, International 505 Class Yacht Racing Association
